rejected spells/skills
 

Rejected, no use and would increase zones to be created beyond acceptable numbers

 Planar Quest (Alteration) 
Sphere: Astral
Range: Touch
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 5 rounds
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Neg.
By joining hands with as many as 12 companions and casting this spell, the priest 
transports his party to any other plane of existence. The priest and his party may arrive at 
a specific location in a plane (if one is known) or at an unknown destination. Travel time 
to the destination, whether known or unknown, will always be at the minimum possible. 
In an inner plane, a friendly guide will always be available to the priest. Hostile 
encounters occur at one-fifth normal frequency.
Unwilling creatures are allowed a saving throw at a -4 penalty to avoid being 
transported.
In the inner planes, the party is magically protected in any means necessary for 
survival. The party does not need to eat, drink, or rest if conditions make these activities 
impossible. Party members are immune to fire in the elemental plane of fire, and similar 
immunities are granted by the Power in other planes as necessary. The party can move 
through any terrain (including the elemental plane of Earth) at its normal movement rate.
In the outer planes, similar immunities apply. The priest is also granted a power 
compass (described in Manual of the Plane). Hostile encounters in an outer plane occur 
only half as often as normal.
The duration of this spell is decided by the Power who grants it. Normally, it is 
sufficient to allow the priest and his party to undertake the quest that the Power has set 
forth. When the quest has been completed successfully or has failed beyond recovery, the 
priest and his party are returned to the Prime Material plane. 

Rejected no use for spell

 
 Mindnet (Divination, Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Duration: 12 turns
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
The priest casting a mindnet spell establishes a telepathic link with as many as 10 
other creatures who may be separated from each other by as much as 10 miles. Thus, a 
chain of creatures 100 miles long could be established.
The Power granting this spell has the final word on the individuals who may be 
included in the spell. Most commonly, the spell will be cast to include individuals 
familiar to the caster. However, depending on the purpose of the spell, the Power may 
allow a stranger known to the caster only by name to be included in the mindnet.
Unwilling creatures must make a saving throw at a -4 penalty to avoid being included 
in the mindnet.
Casting the spell requires one round per two creatures in the mindnet. The spell's duration 
begins after all affected creatures have been linked. Characters of any class may take part 
in this linkage, benefiting from several effects.
First, each member of the mindnet benefits from Intelligence, Wisdom, and Dexterity 
bonuses. The bonuses are equal to the bonuses held by the member of the mindnet with 
the highest ability score. For example, if five creatures in a mindnet have Wisdom scores 
of 15, 15, 16, 17, and 18, each creature would make saving throws, ability checks, and 
the like as if he had a Wisdom score of 18. Bonus spells are not gained due to enhanced 
Wisdom, however.
Second, spells may be pooled among the spellcasters within the mindnet. Any priest 
may use a spell memorized by another priest with two conditions: the priest who has 
memorized the spell must allow its use; and a priest "borrowing" a spell may use only 
spells of levels he could normally cast. Such borrowing still causes the spell to be lost 
from the mind of the caster who memorized it. A caster may not borrow spells outside his 
normal class restrictions. Priests and wizards within a mindnet cannot mix their priestly 
and wizardly spells, nor can a specialist borrow a spell from an opposition school.
Third, each member of the mindnet is in constant mental communication. Each 
member knows what is happening at the locations of all other members.
Finally, twice per turn, the priest casting this spell can instantly teleport any person 
linked by the mindnet to any other person who is also a part of the spell. This massive 
effort results in a +4 penalty to any Constitution checks made by the priest.
The priest casting the spell cannot perform any other actions while the mindnet exists; 
if he does, the spell is canceled. The priest must make a Constitution check at the end of 
each turn in order to sustain the spell. A failed check cancels the mindnet. The spell can 
last a maximum of 12 turns. 

 Rejected pending review


 Spiral of Degeneration (Enchantment/Charm, Invocation) 
Sphere: Chaos, Thought
Range: 0
Duration: 6 turns
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 50-foot-diameter sphere
Saving Throw: Special
This potent spell affects all creatures hostile to the priest within the area of effect. The 
Power granting the spell causes the spell's effects to manifest in one of two ways: the 
Chaos variation or the Thought variation.
In the Chaos variation, the fabric of reality is altered to change events. Magical items 
dysfunction because the fabric of magical reality is changed.
In the Thought variation, the thoughts of the victims of the spell are distorted and 
altered so that they find themselves unable to function coherently and effectively. 
Magical items dysfunction because the thoughts of their users are warped to either 
convince them that the items cannot function or block thought so that proper commands 
cannot be given.
The effects on the victims of the spell are the same for both variations. Each round, 
there is a 50% chance that a degeneration effect will occur in the area of effect. When this 
occurs, two events take place. First, spellcasters lose one spell from each level of spell 
currently memorized (e.g., a spellcaster who has memorized three spells each from levels 
1 through 3 loses one spell from each level for a total of three). Lost spells may be 
regained normally through rest and memorization.
Second, magical items are affected in the following ways:
•Weapons and armor lose one level of enchantment (a sword +3 becomes a sword 
+2, etc.).
•Magical items that carry charges (wands, rods, staves, etc.) are drained of 1d10 
charges.
•Magical items without pluses or charges must make a saving throw versus spell 
(using the saving throw of their owner) or become nonmagical.
•Potions lose all magic and scrolls lose one randomly determined spell.
•Permanent magical items (swords, boots, armor, etc.) temporarily lose all effects 
until the spell expires or until the items leave the area of effect and for 1d10 rounds 
thereafter.
Single-use and charged items are permanently affected by this spell. A potion 
destroyed by this spell remains useless even after the spell ends.
Within the area of effect, magical communication is impossible due to thought blocks 
and chaotic effects. No communication magic (ESP, sending, etc.) will function; any 
spellcaster trying to cast such a spell will be stunned for 1 round per level of the spell he 
attempts to cast. A reverse of the tongues spell operates continuously in the area of effect. 
Telepathic communication (e.g., with a familiar) is also impossible.
In the Chaos variation of the spell, the center of the area of effect moves 10' per 
round. The direction is randomly determined using 1d8 roll and compass points (1N, 
2NE, 3E, 4SE, 5S, 6SW, 7W, 8NW). The radius of the spell effect will never exclude the 
priest who cast the spell; re-roll any result that leads to this occurrence. 

