Spells work file Tier 7

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

 Seventh-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 7 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Acid Storm (Evocation) 
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 40-foot-diameter circle
Saving Throw: ½ 
This deadly spell unleashes a downpour of magical, gelatinous acid droplets. All 
creatures within the area of effect are coated by globs of gooey acid. The acid can be 
washed off only with wine, vinegar, or by a successful dispel magic or similar spell. The 
acid remains present for 1 round per level of the caster, then vanishes.
Creatures coated by the acid suffer 1d4 hit points of damage each round during 
rounds 1-3, 1d6 points in each of rounds 4-6, and 1d8 points on each round thereafter. 
Characters who successfully save vs. spells during the first round suffer only half damage 
from the acid for the remaining rounds. When the spell expires, no further damage is 
inflicted.
Acid damage can be healed through any means except regeneration. The material 
component is a drop of acid. 

 Antimineral Shell
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection, Elemental (Earth)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
When a priest casts this spell, he creates an invisible force field or barrier that 
blocks the entrance of animated or living mineral creatures. It is effective against 
elementals and creatures of elemental origin such as aerial servants, djinns, and mephits; 
golems and other constructs; creatures of living stone, such as galeb duhr or xorn; and 
objects, weapons, or armor animated by some outside force. It does not bar the passage of 
undead monsters, living creatures carrying inanimate material, or nonanimated minerals 
such as a giant-thrown boulder or a common rockslide. The antimineral shell moves with 
the caster, but if the caster tries to force it against a creature affected by this spell, the 
antimineral shell fails. The material component is a drop of some caustic solvent, such as 
acid from a black dragon.

 Banishment
(Abjuration)
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
A banishment spell enables the caster to force some extraplanar creature out of the
caster's home plane. The effect is instantaneous, and the subject cannot come back
without some special summoning or means of egress from its own plane to the one from
which it was banished. Up to 2 Hit Dice or levels of creature per caster level can be
banished.
The caster must both name the type of creature(s) to be sent away and give its name 
and title as well, if any. In any event, the creature's magic resistance must be overcome
for the spell to be effective.
The material components of the spell are substances harmful, hateful, or opposed to the
nature of the subject(s) of the spell. For every such substance included in the casting, the
subject creature(s) loses 5% from its magic resistance and suffers a -2 penalty to its
saving throw vs. spell. For example, if iron, holy water, sunstone, and a sprig of rosemary
were used in casting a banishment upon a being that hates those things, its saving throw
versus the spell would be made with a -8 penalty (four substances times the factor of -2).
Special items, such as hair from the tail of a ki-rin or couatl feathers, could also be added
to change the factor to -3 or -4 per item. In contrast, a titan's hair or mistletoe blessed by a
druid might lower the factor to -1 with respect to the same creature. If the subject creature
successfully rolls its saving throw vs. spell, the caster is stung by a backlash of energy,
suffers 2d6 points of damage, and is stunned for one round.

 Bigby's Grasping Hand
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Bigby's grasping hand is a superior version of the 6th-level spell Bigby's forceful hand.
It creates a man-sized (5 feet) to gargantuan-sized (21 feet) hand that appears and grasps
a creature designated by the caster, regardless of what the spellcaster does or how the
opponent tries to escape it. The grasping hand can hold motionless a creature or object of
up to 1,000 pounds weight, slow movement to 10 feet per round if the creature weighs
between 1,000 and 4,000 pounds, or slow movement by 50% if the creature weighs up to
16,000 pounds. The hand itself inflicts no damage. The grasping hand has an Armor
Class of 0, has as many hit points as its caster in full health, and vanishes when
destroyed. The caster can order it to release a trapped opponent or can dismiss it on
command.
The material component is a leather glove.

 Bloodstone's Frightful Joining (Necromancy) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: One undead creature
Saving Throw: Special 
When this powerful spell is employed, the wizard transfers his spirit to the body of an 
undead creature, totally dominating it. If the undead creature has intelligence, it is 
allowed a saving throw vs. spell to resist the joining. If the save is successful, the caster's 
spirit is forced back into his own body. The wizard must make a system shock roll; if the 
roll fails, the wizard suffers 5d6 points of damage. If the roll succeeds, the wizard suffers 
half this damage.
If the creature's save fails, the necromancer joins his life essence with that of the 
undead. While in the creature's body, the caster can use all of its special attacks and 
innate abilities, excluding spells memorized by the creature.
The wizard's body remains comatose, is subject to all regular attacks, and suffers 
damage normally. The wizard's spirit can travel an unlimited distance from his physical 
body as long as they remain on the same plane of existence.
If intelligent, the possessed undead continually tries to purge the caster with mental 
threats that can be heard only by the wizard. The thoughts of the undead are ghastly. 
During the first minute of each hour of possession, the caster must succeed an 
Intelligence check in order to retain his sanity. The roll is modified by the difference 
between the creature's Intelligence and that of the spellcaster. If the undead has a higher 
score, the difference is added to the die roll. If the necromancer has a higher Intelligence, 
the difference is subtracted from the roll.
If the roll is successful, nothing happens and the caster may continue to possess the 
undead. If the Intelligence roll fails, the wizard's intellect degenerates, making him a 
raving, homicidal maniac. His spirit is immediately forced to return to his body, and he 
must attempt a system shock roll with damage occurring as outlined above. The caster 
remains dangerously insane until a heal or wish spell is used to restore his intellect.
This spell can be very useful when combined with the mask of death spell.
When the spell's duration expires, the necromancer's spirit immediately returns to his 
body. 

 Charm Plants
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10 x 30 ft. Saving Throw: Neg.
The charm plants spell enables the spellcaster to bring under command vegetable life
forms and communicate with them. These plants obey instructions to the best of their
ability. The spell will charm plants in a 30-foot x 10-foot area. While the spell does not
endow the vegetation with new abilities, it does enable the wizard to command the plants
to use whatever they have in order to fulfill his instructions. If the plants in the area of
effect do have special or unusual abilities, these are used as commanded by the wizard. 
For example, this spell can generally duplicate the effects of the 1st-level priest spell
entangle, if the caster desires. The saving throw applies only to intelligent plants, and it is
made with a -4 penalty to the die roll.
The material components of the spell are a pinch of humus, a drop of water, and a twig
or leaf.

 Conjure Air or Water Elemental
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Air/Water)
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6 rds.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
Priests of elemental air or elemental water can summon elementals from their 
respective spheres, just as druids can conjure fire or earth elementals. The summoned 
elemental is 60% likely to have 12 Hit Dice, 35% likely to have 16 Hit Dice, and 5% 
likely to have 21 to 24 Hit Dice (20+1d4). Unlike the wizard version of this spell, the 
caster does not need to concentrate to maintain control of the elemental since the creature 
regards the caster as a friend and obeys him implicitly. The elemental remains until 
destroyed, dispelled, sent away by a dismissal or a holy word spell, or the spell duration 
expires.

 Control Undead
(Necromancy)
Range: 60 ft. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1d6 undead Saving Throw: Special
This spell enables the wizard to command 1d6 undead creatures for a short period of
time. Upon casting the spell, the wizard selects one point within range of the spell. Those
undead nearest to this point are affected, until either undead equal in Hit Dice to the
caster's level or six undead are affected. Undead with 3 Hit Dice or less are automatically
controlled. Those of greater Hit Dice are allowed a saving throw vs. spell, which, if
successful, negates the attempt to control that creature. Regardless of the success or
failure of the saving throw, each creature required to make a check counts toward the Hit
Dice limit of the spell.
Those creatures under the control of the wizard can be commanded by the caster if
they are within hearing range. There is no telepathic communication or language
requirement between the caster and the controlled undead. Even if communication is
impossible, the controlled undead do not attack the spellcaster. At the end of the spell, the
controlled undead revert to their normal behaviors. Those not mindless will remember the
control exerted by the wizard.
The material component for this spell is a small piece each of bone and raw meat.

 Delayed Blast Fireball
(Evocation)
Range: 100 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 20-ft. radius Saving Throw: _
This spell creates a fireball, with a +1 bonus to each of its dice of damage, which
releases its blast anytime from instantly to five rounds later, according to the command
given by the wizard. In other respects, the spell is the same as the 3rd-level spell fireball.

 Descent into Madness
(Enchantment/Charm, Mentalism)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Negates
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
More insidious and powerful than the feeblemind spell, descent into madness 
afflicts one creature with a random form of insanity. The spell can affect any creature 
with an Intelligence of low (5) or higher; however, a character or creature protected by a 
mind blank is immune to this spell. Creatures are entitled to a normal saving throw vs. 
spell to withstand the spell. The form of insanity caused by the spell is determined by a 
roll on the chart:

d%    | Insanity Type
01–15 |  Delirium
16–22 |  Disorientation
23–34 |  Phobia
35–40 |  Paranoia
41–44 |  Alienation
45–54 |  Amnesia
55–64 |  Hallucinatory insanity
65–69 |  Melancholia
70–74 |  Dementia praecox
75–83 |  Mania
84–89 |  Hebephrenia
90–95 |  Catatonia
96–00 |  Homicidal mania

The various types of insanity and their game effects are described under the 
Alienist in Chapter 6. The caster has no idea what kind of madness the spell inflicts on its 
victim, although he may be able to form an educated guess after observing the victim for 
a few rounds. Descent into madness accelerates the process of insanity radically, 
producing an advanced condition almost immediately; for example, a character rendered 
paranoid by this spell skips past suspicion and instantly regards his friends and allies as 
enemies of the worst sort. The victim has a small chance of recovering with the passage 
of time (as described under each type of insanity) but other than that the only ways to 
repair the effects of this spell are restoration, wish, or use of the psionic power psychic 
surgery.
The material component is a special cube of gold wire worth at least 500 gold 
pieces shaped to represent a tesseract, or four-dimensional figure.

 Drawmij's Instant Summons
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Infinite + special Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 small object Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard teleports some desired item from virtually any
location directly to his hand. The single object can be no longer in any dimension than a
sword, can have no more weight than a shield (about eight pounds), and must be
nonliving.
To prepare this spell, the wizard must hold a gem of not less than 5,000 gp value in his
hand and utter all but the final word of the conjuration. At some point in the future, he
must crush the gem and utter the final word. The desired item is then transported instantly
into the spellcaster's right or left hand, as he desires.
The item must have been previously touched during the initial incantation and
specifically named; only that particular item is summoned by the spell. During the initial
incantation, the gem becomes magically inscribed with the name of the item to be
summoned. The inscription is invisible and unreadable, except by means of a read magic
spell, to all but the wizard who cast the summons.
If the item is in the possession of another creature, the spell does not work, and the
caster knows who the possessor is and roughly where he, she, or it is located when the
summons is cast. Items can be summoned from other planes of existence, but only if such
items are not in the possession (not necessarily the physical grasp) of another creature.
For each level of experience above the 14th, the wizard is able to summon a desired item
from one plane farther removed from the plane he is in at the time the spell is cast (one
plane away at 14th level, two planes away at 15th, etc.). Thus, a wizard of 16th level
could cast the spell even if the desired item was on the second layer of one of the Outer
Planes, but at 14th level the wizard would be able to summon the item only if it were no
farther than one of the Inner Planes, the Ethereal Plane, or the Astral Plane (see the
Planescape Campaign Setting boxed set). Note that special wards or barriers, or factors
that block the teleport or plane shift spells, may also block the operation of this spell.
Objects in Leomund's secret chest cannot be recovered by using this spell.
Note: If the item is wizard marked, it can be summoned from anywhere on the same
plane unless special local conditions apply. Furthermore, the details of the location of the
item are more specific, and the item is more easily traceable with other types of scrying
magic.

 Duo-Dimension
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
A duo-dimension spell causes the caster to have only two dimensions, height and
width, with no depth. He is thus invisible when turned sideways. This invisibility can be
detected only by means of a true seeing spell or similar methods. In addition, the duo-dimensional
 wizard can pass through the thinnest of spaces as long as these have the
proper height--going through the space between a door and its frame is a simple matter.
The wizard can perform all actions normally. He can turn and become invisible, move in
this state, and appear again next round and cast a spell, disappearing on the following 
round.
Note that when turned, the wizard cannot be affected by any form of attack, but when
visible, he is subject to double the amount of damage normal for an attack form; for
example, a dagger thrust would inflict 2d4 points of damage if it struck a duo-dimensional wizard.
 Furthermore, the wizard has a portion of his existence in the Astral
Plane when the spell is in effect, and he is subject to possible notice by creatures there. If
noticed, it is 25% probable that the wizard is pulled entirely into the Astral Plane by any
attack from an astral creature. Such an attack (and any subsequent attack received on the
Astral Plane) inflicts normal damage.
The material components of this spell are a flat ivory likeness of the spellcaster (which
must be of finest workmanship, gold filigreed, and enameled and gem-studded at an
average cost of 500 to 1,000 gp) and a strip of parchment. As the spell is uttered, the
parchment is given half a twist and joined at the ends. The figurine is then passed through
the parchment loop, and both disappear forever.

 Finger of Death
(Necromancy)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The finger of death spell snuffs out the victim's life force. If successful, the victim can
be neither raised nor resurrected. In addition, in human subjects the spell initiates changes
to the body such that after three days the caster can, by means of a special ceremony
costing not less than 1,000 gp plus 500 gp per body, animate the corpse as a juju zombie
under the control of the caster. The changes can be reversed before animation by a limited
wish or similar spell cast directly upon the body, and a full wish restores the subject to
life.
The caster utters the finger of death spell incantation, points his index finger at the
creature to be slain, and unless the victim succeeds in a saving throw vs. spell, death
occurs. A creature successfully saving still receives 2d8+1 points of damage. If the
subject dies of damage, no internal changes occur and the victim can then be revived
normally.

 Forcecage
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./2 levels Components: V, S, special
Duration: 6 turns + 1/level Casting Time: 3-4
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
This powerful spell enables the caster to bring into being a cube of force, but it is
unlike the magical item of that name in one important respect: The forcecage does not
have solid walls of force; it has alternating bands of force with _-inch gaps between.
Thus, it is truly a cage, rather than an enclosed space with solid walls. Creatures within 
the area of effect of the spell are caught and contained unless they are able to pass
through the openings--and, of course, all spells and breath weapons can pass through the
gaps in the bars of force of the forcecage.
A creature with magic resistance has a single attempt to pass through the walls of the
cage. If the resistance check is successful, the creature escapes. If it fails, the creature is
caged. Note that a successful check does not destroy the cage, nor does it enable other
creatures (save familiars) to flee with the escaping creature. The forcecage is also unlike
the solid-walled protective device, cube of force, in that it can be gotten rid of only by
means of a dispel magic spell or by the expiration of the spell.
By means of special preparation at the time of memorization, a forcecage spell can be
altered to a forcecube spell. The cube created is 10 feet on a side, and the spell then
resembles that of a cube of force in all respects save that of the differences between a cast
spell and the magic of a device, including the methods of defeating its power.
Although the actual casting of either application of the spell requires no material
component, the study required to commit it to memory does demand that the wizard
powder a diamond of at least 1,000 gp value, using the diamond dust to trace the outlines
of the cage or cube he desires to create via spellcasting at some later time. Thus, in
memorization, the diamond dust is employed and expended, for upon completion of
study, the wizard must then toss the dust into the air and it will disappear.

 Hatch the Stone from the Egg (Alteration, Enchantment, Evocation) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1d4+4 hours
Area of Effect: One alchemical mixture
Saving Throw: None 
When a wizard wishes to create the magical item known as the philosopher's stone, 
he must first discover its alchemical formula, which tells him the necessary ingredients 
and the method of preparing them. This information is not provided by this spell, and this 
spell is useless without the formula. (The exact ingredients and formula are decided by 
the Dungeon Master and must be discovered by the wizard by adventuring.)
When the formula has been discovered and the ingredients prepared, the wizard 
enchants the alchemical mixture with the enchant an item spell. Hatch the stone from the 
egg is then cast upon the mixture. This spell slowly transmutes the mixture into its final 
form as the philosopher's stone. The process is completed with a permanency spell.
The material component for this spell is a magical item known as the philosopher's 
egg, which is an enchanted retort used to hold the alchemical mixture. The egg is not 
destroyed upon completion of the spell and may be used again. (Further details about the 
philosopher's egg are found in Chapter 4 of this book.) 

 Hornung's Surge Selector* (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
The great Hornung, having been blasted more than once by his own wild surges, 
devised a method of improving the results of wild magic and, not incidentally, his own 
chances of survival. The result was Hornung's surge selector.
By casting this spell, the wild mage gains greater control over wild surges. When the 
caster's spell creates a wild surge, two separate results are determined from Table 2. The 
caster can then choose which of the two results will take effect. This spell can be used in 
conjunction with Nahal's reckless dweomer.
The spell's duration is a fixed number of surges or 12 hours, whichever comes first. 
The wild mage is able to shape one wild surge per five levels of his experience; thus, a 
15th-level caster could shape three wild surges within a 12-hour period. At the end of 12 
hours, the spell expires, regardless of the number of surges remaining.
The material component is a brass spinner. 

 Impervious Sanctity of Mind
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection, Thought
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
When using this spell, the priest renders his mind completely immune to any 
mind-affecting spell, power, or psionic effect. This includes amnesia, awe, beguiling, 
charm, command, confusion, domination, emotion, empathy, ESP, fascination, fear, 
feeblemind, hold, hypnotism, insanity, magic jar, mind blast, phantasmal killer, 
possession, rulership, sleep, soul trapping, suggestion, telepathy, and any psionic attack 
or power of the telepathic discipline. In short, if the spell or effect coerces the priest into 
taking an action or forming an impression that he doesn’t wish to, it fails while 
impervious sanctity of mind is in effect. The only mind-affecting spells or powers that 
can affect the protected priest are those of exceedingly powerful creatures or artifacts and 
relics.
Unlike the wizard spell mind blank, the impervious sanctity of mind offers no 
protection against detection or scrying. However, it is effective against some attacks and 
powers that mind blank is powerless against. The spell requires a small ring of lead that 
was once breathed upon by a red dragon.


 Intensify Summoning (Conjuration/Summoning, Necromancy)
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None 
This spell enhances the strength of creatures summoned by the caster via 1st through 
6th level conjuration/summoning spells. Only spells which bring summoned creatures to 
the wizard are affected.
The first two conjuration/summoning spells cast by the wizard within one turn 
following the intensify summoning spell are affected. Summoned creatures gain 2 hit 
points per hit die. The affected creatures retain their bonus hit points until the normal 
expiration of the spell that summoned them. 
The material components are a small leather pouch and a miniature silver candelabra. 

 Limited Wish
(Conjuration/Summoning, Invocation/Evocation)
Range: Unlimited Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
The limited wish is a very potent but difficult spell. It will fulfill literally, but only
partially or for a limited duration, the utterance of the spellcaster. Thus, the actuality of
the past, present, or future might be altered (but possibly only for the wizard unless the
wording of the spell is most carefully stated) in some limited manner. The use of a
limited wish will not substantially change major realities, nor will it bring wealth or
experience merely by asking. The spell can, for example, restore some hit points (or all
hit points for a limited duration) lost by the wizard. It can reduce opponent hit
probabilities or damage, increase duration of some magical effect, cause a creature to be
favorably disposed to the spellcaster, mimic a spell of 7th level or less, and so on (see the
9th-level wish spell). Greedy desires usually end in disaster for the wisher. Casting time
is based on the time spent preparing the wording for the spell (clever players decide what
they want to say before using the spell). Normally, the casting time is one round (most of
it being taken up by deciding what to say). Casting this spell ages the caster one year per
100 years of regular life span.

 Malec-Keth's Flame Fist (Evocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature or object
Saving Throw: Special 
When this spell is completed, one of the caster's hands (his choice) bursts into light 
and is surrounded by an aura of flame. The caster suffers no damage from this effect. 
Illumination is equal to that of a torch.
If the wizard successfully touches an opponent, the subject must attempt a saving 
throw. If the roll is successful, the flame remains on the caster's hand (and he may use it 
to make further attacks until the spell's duration expires) and the touched creature suffers 
1d4+2 points of fire damage. If the save is failed, the flame leaves the caster's hand to 
surround the victim's body in an aura of searing fire. The superheated aura burns for 1 
round, inflicting 1d4 points of damage per level of the caster.
Instead of attacking a creature, the caster may choose to touch any single object, 
which is automatically surrounded by the searing aura for 1 round and must succeed at an 
item saving throw vs. magical fire or be destroyed. The aura can surround an object up to 
5 cubic feet in volume per level of the caster. 

 Mass Invisibility
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 60 x 60 yds. Saving Throw: None
This is a more extensive adaptation of the invisibility spell for battlefield use. It can
hide creatures in a 60-yard x 60-yard area: up to 400 man-sized creatures, 30 to 40 giants,
or six to eight large dragons. The effect is mobile with the unit and is broken when the
unit attacks. Individuals leaving the unit become visible. The wizard can end this spell
upon command.
The material components of the mass invisibility spell are an eyelash and a bit of gum
arabic, the former encased in the latter.

 Monster Summoning V
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 6 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 70-yd. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell is much like the 3rd-level monster summoning I spell, except that this spell
summons 1d3 5th-level monsters. These appear within the spell's area of effect and attack
the caster's opponents until either he commands them to cease, the spell duration expires,
or the monsters are slain. These creatures do not check morale, and they vanish when
slain. If no opponent exists to fight, summoned monsters can, if the wizard can
communicate with them, and if they are physically capable, perform other services for the
summoning wizard.
The material components of this spell are a tiny bag and a small (not necessarily lit)
candle.

 Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion
(Alteration, Conjuration)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 7 rds.
Area of Effect: 300 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard conjures up an extradimensional dwelling, entrance
to which can be gained only at a single point of space on the plane from which the spell
was cast. From the entry point, those creatures observing the area see only a faint
shimmering in the air, in an area 4 feet wide and 8 feet high. The caster of the spell
controls entry to the mansion, and the portal is shut and made invisible behind him when
he enters. He may open it again from his own side at will. Once observers have passed
beyond the entrance, they behold a magnificent foyer and numerous chambers beyond.
The place is furnished and contains sufficient foodstuffs to serve a nine-course banquet to
as many dozens of people as the spellcaster has levels of experience. There is a staff of
near-transparent servants, liveried and obedient, to wait upon all who enter. The
atmosphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
Since the place can be entered only through its special portal, outside conditions do not
affect the mansion, nor do conditions inside it pass to the plane beyond. Rest and
relaxation within the place is normal, but the food is not. It seems excellent and quite
filling as long as one is within the place. Once outside, however, its effects disappear
immediately, and if those resting have not eaten real food within a reasonable time span,
ravenous hunger strikes. Failure to eat normal food immediately results in the onset of
fatigue or starvation penalties as decided by the DM.
The material components of this spell are a miniature portal carved from ivory, a small
piece of polished marble, and a tiny silver spoon. These are utterly destroyed when the
spell is cast.
(It is worth mentioning that this spell has been used in conjunction with a normal
portal, as well as with illusion magic. There is evidence that the design and interior of the
space created can be altered to suit the caster's wishes.)

 Mordenkainen's Sword
(Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Upon casting this spell, the wizard brings into being a shimmering, swordlike plane of
force. The spellcaster is able to mentally wield this weapon (to the exclusion of all
activities other than movement), causing it to move and strike as if it were being used by
a fighter. The basic chance for Mordenkainen's sword to hit is the same as the chance for
a sword wielded by a fighter of half the level of the spellcaster. For example, if cast by a
14th-level wizard, the weapon has the same hit probability as a sword wielded by a 7thlevel fighter.
The sword has no magical attack bonuses, but it can hit nearly any sort of opponent,
even those normally struck only by +3 weapons or those who are astral, ethereal, or out
of phase. It hits any Armor Class on a roll of 19 or 20. It inflicts 5d4 points of damage to
opponents of man size or smaller, and 5d6 points of damage to opponents larger than man
size. It lasts until the spell duration expires, a dispel magic is used successfully upon it, or
its caster no longer desires it.
The material component is a miniature platinum sword with a grip and pommel of
copper and zinc, which costs 500 gp to construct, and which disappears after the spell's
completion.

 Neutralize Gas
(Abjuration, Elemental Air, Alchemy)
Range: 60 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One 10-ft. cube/lvl. Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Large visual/olfactory Critical: None
By using this spell, the wizard renders inert and makes breathable any harmful 
vapors, gases, clouds, or fogs in the area of effect. This includes stinking cloud, cloudkill, 
solid fog, death fog, incendiary cloud, acid storm, gaseous breath weapons, spore or mold 
clouds, and similar spells and effects. Harmful gas or vapor is transformed into a 
common, harmless fog cloud of the same dimensions as the original effect, and then 
dissipates 1d3 rounds later. Creatures who were injured before neutralize gas is cast 
continue to suffer any effects from their previous exposure—the spell does not heal or 
counter existing damage, so a creature that is choking and gagging from a stinking cloud 
would receive no relief from this dweomer.
If cast in the same round of the effect’s appearance, neutralize gas may be used to 
counter gaseous breath weapons, spores, and molds by granting any creatures affected a 
+4 bonus to their saving throws and reducing any damage to one-half or one-quarter 
normal, depending on whether or not the victims make their saving throws. Air-based 
creatures are not affected by this spell; neutralize gas only “clears the air” of any harmful 
inhalants. The material components are a bit of charcoal and some bark from a treant.

 Persistence
(Invocation/Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
Related to both the contingency and permanency spells, persistence allows a 
wizard to cast a spell of 6th level or lower and then hold it until it is needed. There are 
two general uses for persistence: to use a personal spell effect as needed up to the 
maximum duration of the persistence itself, or to prepare an instantaneous spell and hold 
it ready until the caster wishes to use it.
A. Personal effect. Any spell that augments the wizard’s natural abilities—detect 
magic, protection from evil, jump, infravision, fly, wraithform, or other caster-affecting 
spells—can be made persistent by use of this spell. The wizard casts persistence and then 
immediately follows with the desired spell. Instead of taking effect immediately, the 
magic of the persistence holds it ready for use by a simple act of will. The wizard can 
then “turn on” or “turn off” the girded spell as often as he likes over the course of the 
duration of the persistence. The duration of the girded spell only runs while the spell is 
active, so a 15th-level wizard who makes a fly spell persistent will be able to use 1d6+15 
turns of flight (the normal duration of fly) over the next 15 days (the duration of the 
persistence) as he sees fit.
This is especially useful because it allows the wizard to cast the girded spell and 
the persistence and have the girded spell’s effects available while he then memorizes 
another spell in place of the spell made persistent. It is also useful because the girded 
spell can be activated instantly by an act of will. The main difference between this spell 
and contingency lies in the fact that a persistent spell may be invoked several times (up to 
the limit of its normal duration) while a contingency functions once only.
B. Held spell. Spells that have an instantaneous effect, such as most attack spells 
and some movement spells like teleport or dimension door, can be rendered persistent as 
well. The held spell may be activated or discharged at any time during the duration of the 
persistence, but its magic is then exhausted as if it had been cast normally. This 
resembles the effect of a contingency spell, but the effect has no predefined conditions 
and simply occurs when the caster wills it to.
Damaging or offensive spells that have a duration (for example, flaming sphere or 
wall of fire) cannot be rendered persistent. A wizard may have no more than one 
persistence spell active at any given time; if he girds a new spell while an old one is still 
persistent, the old spell is simply replaced by the new one. The material component is a 
crystal chalice of exquisite workmanship worth at least 2,000 gp. The material 
component of a held or girded spell is expended when the spell is made persistent.

 Phase Door
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V
Duration: 1 usage/2 levels Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard attunes his body, and a section of wall is affected as 
if by a passwall spell. The phase door is invisible to all creatures save the spellcaster, and
only he can use the space or passage the spell creates, disappearing when the phase door
is entered, and appearing when it is exited. If the caster desires, one other creature of man
size or less can be taken through the door; this counts as two uses of the door. The door
does not pass light, sound, or spell effects, nor can the caster see through it without using
it. Thus, the spell can provide an escape route, though certain creatures, such as phase
spiders, can follow with ease. A gem of true seeing and similar magic will reveal the
presence of a phase door but will not allow its use.
The phase door lasts for one usage for every two levels of experience of the spellcaster.
It can be dispelled only by a casting of dispel magic from a higher-level wizard, or from
several lower-level wizards, casting in concert, whose combined levels of experience are
more than double that of the wizard who cast the spell (this is the only instance in which
dispel effects can be combined).
Rumor has it that this spell has been adapted by a certain powerful wizard (or wizards)
to create renewable (or permanent) portals, which may (or may not) be keyed to specific
individuals (henchmen) or items (such as rings).

 Power Word, Stun
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When a power word, stun spell is uttered, any creature of the wizard's choice is
stunned--reeling and unable to think coherently or act--for a duration dependent on its
current hit points. Of course, the wizard must be facing the creature, and the creature
must be within the range of 5 yards per experience level of the caster. Creatures with 1 to
30 hit points are stunned for 4d4 rounds, those with 31 to 60 hit points are stunned for
2d4 rounds, those with 61 to 90 hit points are stunned for 1d4 rounds, and creatures with
over 90 hit points are not affected. Note that if a creature is weakened so that its hit points
are below its usual maximum, the current number of hit points is used.

 Prismatic Spray
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 70 x 15 ft. spray Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is cast, the wizard causes seven shimmering, multicolored rays of light
to flash from his hand in a triangular spray. This spray is 70 feet long and spreads to 15
feet wide at the end. It includes all colors of the visible spectrum; each ray has a different
power and purpose. Any creature with fewer than 8 Hit Dice struck by a ray is blinded for
2d4 rounds, regardless of any other effect.
Any creature in the area of effect will be touched by one or more of the rays. To 
determine which ray strikes a creature, roll 1d8 and consult the following table:
Prismatic Spray Results
1 = red 
2 = orange 
3 = yellow 
4 = green 
5 = blue
6 = indigo
7 = violet
8 = struck by two rays, roll again twice (ignoring any 8s)

Color      |Order     |
of Ray     |of Ray    |Effect of Ray
Red        | 1st      | Inflicts 20 points of damage, save vs. spell for half.
Orange     | 2nd      | Inflicts 40 points of damage, save vs. spell for half.
Yellow     | 3rd      | Inflicts 80 points of damage, save vs. spell for half.
Green      | 4th      | Save vs. poison or die; survivors suffer 20 points of poison damage.
Blue       | 5th      | Save vs. petrification or be turned to stone.
Indigo     | 6th      | Save vs. wand or go insane.
Violet     | 7th      | Save vs. spell or be sent to another plane.

 Reverse Gravity
(Alteration)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 30 ft. x 30 ft. Saving Throw: None
This spell reverses gravity in the area of effect, causing all unattached objects and
creatures within it to "fall" upward. The reverse gravity lasts as long as the caster desires
or until the spell expires. If some solid object is encountered in this "fall," the object
strikes it in the same manner as it would during a normal downward fall. At the end of
the spell duration, the affected objects and creatures fall downward. As the spell affects
an area, objects tens, hundreds, or even thousands of feet in the air above the area can be
affected.
The material components of this spell are a lodestone and iron filings.

 Sequester
(Illusion/Phantasm, Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 week + 1 day/level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 2-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: Special
When cast, this spell not only prevents detection and location spells from working to
detect or locate the objects affected by the sequester spell, it also renders the affected
object(s) invisible to any form of sight or seeing. Thus, a sequester spell can mask a 
secret door, a treasure vault, etc. Of course, the spell does not prevent the subject from
being discovered through tactile means or through the use of devices (such as a robe of
eyes or a gem of seeing). If cast upon a creature who is unwilling to be affected, the
creature receives a normal saving throw. Living creatures (and even undead types)
affected by a sequester spell become comatose and are effectively in a state of suspended
animation until the spell wears off or is dispelled.
The material components of the spell are a basilisk eyelash, gum arabic, and a dram of
whitewash.

 Seven-Eyes
(Abjuration, Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Create 7 eyes Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: Varies
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: Varies
This spell conjures into existence seven magical orbs that float above the caster’s 
head in a ring about 5 feet in diameter. The eyes remain for 1 round per level, or until the 
caster chooses to either expend the orb by using it in attack or defense. In addition, as 
long as at least one eye is still in existence, the caster gains 360° vision and can detect 
invisibility and detect phase at will, with a 60-foot range. The powers of each eye are 
described below.
Eye of the Mind. This orb protects the caster against mental attack, charm, or 
influence, including charm, beguiling, hold, and emotion effects. The first such attack is 
negated by the orb and destroys it in turn. If the wizard desires, the eye of the mind can 
instead be used to charm person like the 1st-level wizard spell, although this also 
expends the orb.
Eye of the Sword. This eye deflects the first physical attack that endangers the 
caster, including hand-held or missile attacks, and then disappears. The wizard can also 
employ the eye of the sword to create five magical blades that strike as magic missiles for 
1d4+1 points of damage each. (Knockdown d6, medium (1 hit) impact)
Eye of the Mage. One manifestation of raw energy, such as lightning, fire, force, 
cold, or a similar effect, is absorbed by the eye of the mage. The eye can also project a 
60-foot long by 5-foot wide lightning bolt that inflicts 4d8 damage (saving throw vs. spell 
for half damage) to all in its path. Either use expends the eye’s power. (Knockdown d12, 
large (1–3 hits) electricity)
Eye of Venom. This eye can be used to halt any one attack or effect that could 
poison the caster. In the case of an attacker armed with an envenomed weapon, the caster 
may decide to expend either the eye of venom or the eye of swords in order to block the 
attack. The eye can also be used to poison one creature within 30 feet; the victim must 
make a saving throw vs. poison or die in one round.
Eye of the Spirit. The first attack that affects the victim’s life energy, including 
energy drain, strength drain, cause wounds, trap the soul, magic jar, or death is parried 
by the eye of the spirit. The wizard may instead choose to expend the eye’s power by 
casting enervation (see the 4th-level wizard spell) upon one target within 30 feet.
Eye of Artifice. This eye deflects and is destroyed by the first attack directed at 
the caster from a magical device. If the attack also takes a form that may be blocked by 
another eye (for example, the bolt from a wand of lightning) the caster may choose which 
eye is expended. If used to attack instead, the eye of artifice functions as a dispel magic 
cast at 8th level.
Eye of Stone. This eye offers protection against the first attack that could petrify 
the caster and then vanishes. It can also be expended to cast hold person.
Although any number of eyes can defend the wizard in the course of a single 
round, only one eye may be used to attack per round. When the caster uses an eye to 
attack, he may not cast a spell, attack physically, or employ another magical item in the 
same round; willing the eye to discharge its energies requires his complete concentration. 
Eye attacks are considered to have an initiative modifier of 1 or a speed of very fast in the 
Player’s Option: Combat & Tactics initiative system.
The material component is seven blessed gemstones worth at least 50 gold pieces 
each.


 Shadowcat (Illusion) 
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None 
When this spell is cast, the wizard brings into being a cat made of shadow. The 
shadowcat is the size of a normal cat and may be either grey or black at the caster's 
option. The caster has complete telepathic control of the feline; he can see, hear, and even 
speak through it as long as it remains within range. At the moment it moves out of range, 
the shadowcat vanishes. The caster does not need to concentrate on the shadowcat.
The shadowy feline is insubstantial, making subject only to magical or special 
attacks, including those by weapons of +1 or better. It has AC 5, a movement rate of 18, 
and saving throws equal to those of the caster. The cat dissipates if it loses hit points 
equal to one-half the caster's total hit points. The shadowcat has no attacks of its own and 
cannot touch or carry objects. A successful dispel magic spell causes the cat to vanish.
A shadowcat makes no sound as it moves. It is 90% undetectable in all but the 
brightest conditions. It can pass through small holes or narrow openings.
The material components of this spell are a black pearl of at least 100 gp value and a 
claw from a grey or black cat. 

 Shadow Walk
(Illusion, Enchantment)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 6 turns/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
In order to use the shadow walk spell, the wizard must be in an area of heavy shadows.
The caster and any creature he touches are then transported to the edge of the Prime
Material Plane where it borders the Demiplane of Shadow. In this region, the wizard can
move at a rate of up to 7 miles per turn, moving normally on the borders of the
Demiplane of Shadow but much more rapidly relative to the Prime Material Plane. Thus,
a wizard can use this spell to travel rapidly by stepping onto the Demiplane of Shadow,
moving the desired distance, and then stepping back onto the Prime Material Plane. The
wizard knows where he will come out on the Prime Material Plane.
The shadow walk spell can also be used to travel to other planes that border on the
Demiplane of Shadow, but this requires the potentially perilous transit of the Demiplane
of Shadow to arrive at a border with another plane of reality.
Any creatures touched by the wizard when shadow walk is cast also make the
transition to the borders of the Demiplane of Shadow. They may opt to follow the wizard,
wander off through the plane, or stumble back into the Prime Material Plane (50% chance
for either result if they are lost or abandoned by the wizard). Creatures unwilling to
accompany the wizard into the Demiplane of Shadow receive a saving throw, negating
the effect if successful.

 Simulacrum
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to create a duplicate of any creature. The
duplicate appears to be exactly the same as the original, but there are differences: The
simulacrum has only 51% to 60% (50% + 1d10%) of the hit points of the real creature,
there are personality differences, there are areas of knowledge that the duplicate does not
have, and a detect magic spell will instantly reveal it as a simulacrum, as will a true 
seeing spell. At all times the simulacrum remains under the absolute command of the
wizard who created it. No special telepathic link exists, so command must be exercised in
some other manner. The spell creates the form of the creature, but it is only a zombielike
creation. A reincarnation spell must be used to give the duplicate a vital force, and a
limited wish spell must be used to empower the duplicate with 40% to 65% (35% + 5 to
30%) of the knowledge and personality of the original. The level of the simulacrum, if
any, is from 20% to 50% of that of the original creature.
The duplicate creature is formed from ice or snow. The spell is cast over the rough
form and some piece of the creature to be duplicated must be placed inside the snow or
ice. Additionally, the spell requires powdered ruby.
The simulacrum has no ability to become more powerful; it cannot increase its level or
abilities. If destroyed, it reverts to snow and melts into nothingness. Damage to the
simulacrum can be repaired by a complex process requiring at least one day, 100 gp per
hit point, and a fully equipped laboratory.

 Spell Shape* (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4+1 rounds
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: Special 
This spell gives the wild mage the ability to seize magical energy directed at him and 
reshape it as he desires. While it is in effect, the spell gives no visible sign of its 
existence. It offers no protection against area effect spells.
If a wild mage is the target of a spell or magical item, this spell automatically allows 
him a saving throw. If the saving throw is failed, the opponent's spell has normal effects. 
If the saving throw is successful, the spell shape absorbs the magical energy of the 
opponent's spell. The wild mage can then choose to let the energy dissipate or he can 
instantly use it to cast a spell back at the opposing mage. The return spell must be of an 
equal or lesser spell level than the original one and must be currently memorized by the 
mage. The act of returning the spell does not cost the wild mage any of his memorized 
spells. Spell energy cannot be saved; if not used immediately, it dissipates.
For example, Hamos, a wild mage, is protected by a spell shape and is struck by a 
finger of death (a 7th-level spell). He succeeds at his saving throw and is now able to cast 
a spell of 7th level or lower. Hamos currently has feeblemind memorized. Since it is only 
a 5th-level spell, he chooses to cast it back at his enemy. He makes his level variation 
check (and doesn't get a wild surge) and the feeblemind is sent hurtling back at his foe. 
Hamos still has his original feeblemind memorized. The remaining two spell levels are 
lost, since they were not used in the same round.
If a wild mage is struck by two spells at once, he may choose which spell to shape. 
He suffers all effects of the remaining spell.
The material component is a diamond worth no less than 2,000 gp. When the spell is 
cast, the diamond is transformed into a lump of coal. 

 Spell Turning
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Up to 3 rds./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This powerful abjuration causes spells cast against the wizard to rebound on the
original caster. This includes spells cast from scrolls and innate spell-like abilities, but
specifically excludes the following: area effects that are not centered directly upon the
protected wizard, spell effects delivered by touch, and spell effects from devices such as
wands, staves, etc. Thus, a light spell cast to blind the protected wizard could be turned
back upon and possibly blind the caster, while the same spell would be unaffected if cast
to light an area within which the protected wizard is standing.
From seven to ten spell levels are affected by the turning. The exact number is secretly
rolled by the DM; the player never knows for certain how effective the spell is.
A spell may be only partially turned--divide the number of remaining levels that can be
turned by the spell level of the incoming spell to see what fraction of the effect is turned,
with the remainder affecting the caster. For example, an incoming fireball is centered on
a wizard with one level of spell turning left. This means that 2/3 of the fireball affects the
protected wizard, 1/3 affects the caster, and each is the center of a fireball effect. If the
rolled damage is 40 points, the protected wizard receives 27 points of damage and the
caster suffers 13. Both (and any creatures in the respective areas) can roll saving throws
vs. spell for half damage. A partially turned hold or paralysis spell will act as a slow spell
on those who are 50% or more affected.
If the protected wizard and a spellcasting attacker both have spell turning effects
operating, a resonating field is created that has the following effects: 

D100 Roll | Effect
01-70     | Spell drains away without effect
71-80     | Spell affects both equally at full damage
81-97     | Both turning effects are rendered nonfunctional for 1d4 turns
98-00     | Both casters go through a rift into the Positive Energy plane

The material component for the spell is a small silver mirror.

 Statue
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: Special
When a statue spell is cast, the wizard or other creature is apparently turned to solid
stone, along with any garments and equipment worn or carried. The initial transformation
from flesh to stone requires one full round after the spell is cast.
During the transformation, there's an 18% chance that the targeted creature suffers a
system shock failure and dies. The creature must roll percentile dice and add its
Constitution score to the roll. If the total is 18 or less, the creature dies. If the total is 19
or more, the creature survives the transformation; the creature can withstand any
inspection and appear to be a stone statue, although faint magic is detected from the stone
if someone checks for it. Note that a creature with a Constitution of 18 or more will
always survive the transformation.
Despite being in this condition, the petrified individual can see, hear, and smell
normally. Feeling is limited to those sensations that can affect the granite-hard substance
of the individual's body--i.e., chipping is equal to a slight wound, but breaking off one of
the statue's arms is serious damage.
The individual under the magic of a statue spell can return to his normal state instantly,
act, and then return to the statue state, if he so desires, as long as the spell duration is in
effect.
The material components of this spell are lime, sand, and a drop of water stirred by an
iron bar, such as a nail or spike.

 Steal Enchantment (Enchantment) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 hour
Area of Effect: One item
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell "steals" the enchantment from a magical item and places it within another, 
non-magical item (the material component). Both objects must be touched by the wizard 
during casting. The two items must be of the same category (blunt weapon, edged 
weapon, ring, amulet, shield, armor, wand, etc.).
The enchantment can be transferred only to a nonmagical item. Only the energy of 
one item can be transferred; it is not possible to combine two magical items into one 
item. The new item has all the properties of the original magical item (including the same 
number of charges, if any).
At the culmination of the spell, the original magical object is allowed an item saving 
throw vs. disintegration with all modifiers it is allowed as a magical item. Exceptionally 
powerful objects (such as artifacts) may be considered to automatically succeed the 
saving throw at the DM's discretion.
If the saving throw is successful, the magical object resists the effect and the spell 
ends in failure. If the roll is failed, the magical item loses all of its powers, which are 
transferred to the previously nonmagical object.
Even if the magical item fails its saving throw, the spell's success is not guaranteed. 
There is a chance that the enchantment might be lost. The base chance of this occurring is 
100%, modified by -5% per level of the caster. Thus, a 20th-level wizard has no chance 
of losing the magic. If the enchantment is lost, both items become nonmagical.
The material component is the nonmagical item which is to receive the enchantment. 
It must be of equal or greater value than the object to be drained.

 Suffocate (Alteration, Necromancy) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10-foot-radius circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell draws the breath out of all creatures within the area of effect who fail a 
saving throw. Their breath is placed within a small silk bag held by the caster.
Each round, a victim of this spell must attempt a Constitution check. If failed, the 
creature suffers 2d4 points of damage. If successful, the subject has taken in enough air to 
reduce the damage to 1d4.
As they struggle and gasp for air, affected creatures move and attack at half their 
normal rates, have a -4 Armor Class penalty, an attack penalty of -4, and lose all 
Dexterity combat bonuses.
Effects of this spell continue each round regardless of whether the victims remain in 
the original area of effect. The damage accumulates until the spell expires, the silk bag is 
opened, or a successful dispel magic spell is cast upon the bag. The penalties to combat 
remain in effect for 1d3 rounds after the spell ends.
The material component is a small silk bag studded with black opals worth a total of 
no less than 5,000 gp. The bag is not destroyed during casting, but becomes useless for 
future castings if a successful dispel magic spell is used on it. 

 Teleport Without Error
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar to the teleport spell. The caster is able to transport himself, along
with the material weight noted for a teleport spell, to any known location in his home
plane with no chance for error. The spell also enables the caster to travel to other planes
of existence, but any such plane is, at best, "studied carefully." This assumes that the
caster has, in fact, actually been to the plane and carefully perused an area for an eventual
teleportation without error spell. The table for the teleport spell is used, with the caster's
knowledge of the area to which transportation is desired used to determine the chance of 
error. (For an exception, see the 9th-level wizard spell succor.) The caster can do nothing
else in the round that he appears from a teleport.

Tsunami
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 200 yds. + 50 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: Wave 2 ft. high Saving Throw: None
 and 10 ft. long per level
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: Special
Sensory: Gargantuan visual, Critical: None
 huge audio
This mighty spell summons a tsunami, or gigantic wave, from any major body of 
water. The body of water must be at least 1 mile in width, so in most circumstances the 
tsunami can only be summoned from the sea, large lakes, or extremely big rivers. The 
wave is 2 feet high and 10 feet long for each level of experience of the caster, so a 
15th-level priest would summon a tsunami 30 feet high and 150 feet wide. The wave can 
appear anywhere within the spell’s range and immediately sweeps forward in the 
direction specified by the caster. This may take it out of the allowed range or even back at 
the casting priest. The tsunami moves at a rate of 24 (240 yards per round) and lasts one 
round at 14th level, two rounds at 18th level, or three rounds at 22nd or higher level.
Ships caught by the tsunami must make a seaworthiness check (see Table 77: 
Ship Types in the DMG) with a penalty equal to the wave’s height in feet. For example, a 
tsunami created by a 15th-level caster would inflict a –30% penalty to a vessel’s 
seaworthiness check. If the check is failed, the vessel capsizes and sinks in 1d10 rounds, 
with the possible loss of those aboard. Human or humanoid swimmers caught in the wave 
must make a saving throw vs. death magic or be drowned in the wave; any creature in the 
water in the wave’s path will be carried along as long as it lasts.
If the priest sent the wave towards the shore, the tsunami loses 5 feet of height for 
every 20 yards it travels; a 30-foot wave could wash 120 yards inland before there was 
nothing left of it. Creatures caught in the area sustain 1d4 points of damage for every 5 
feet of height the tsunami currently possesses and are carried along until it ends. 
Air-breathing creatures must make saving throws vs. death magic or be drowned outright 
by this treatment. Wooden buildings have a chance equal to three times the wave’s 
current height of being destroyed by the tsunami (90% for a 30-foot wave, for example) 
while stone buildings have a chance equal to the wave’s height (or 30% for a 30-foot 
wave). Topography may influence or channel the wave’s advance, so a good-sized hill 
could stop a tsunami cold, although its seaward face may be denuded of creatures and 
vegetation by the wave.
Note that this spell in the hands of a high-level character can blanket an awesome 
amount of territory and literally destroy or drown anything in its path. The tsunami is so 
strenuous a spell that the priest is exhausted and helpless for 1d6 hours after summoning 
it.

 Vanish
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
When the wizard employs this spell, he causes an object to vanish (i.e., to be teleported
as if by a teleport spell) if it weighs no more than 50 pounds per caster level. Thus, a
14th-level caster can vanish, and cause to reappear at a desired location, an object up to
700 pounds in weight. The maximum volume of material that can be affected is 3 cubic
feet per level of experience. Thus, both weight and volume limit the spell. An object that
exceeds either limitation is unaffected and the spell fails.
If desired, a vanished object can be placed deep within the Ethereal Plane. In this case,
the point from which the object vanished remains faintly magical until the item is
retrieved. A successful dispel magic spell cast on the point will bring the vanished item
back from the Ethereal Plane. Note that creatures and magical forces cannot be made to
vanish.
There is a 1% chance that a vanished item will be disintegrated instead. There is also a
1% chance that a creature from the Ethereal Plane is able to gain access to the Prime
Material Plane through the vanished item's connection.

 Vision
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When a wizard wishes to gain supernatural guidance, he casts a vision spell, calling
upon whatever power he desires aid from and asking a question that will be answered
with a vision. Two six-sided dice are rolled. If they total 2 to 6, the power is annoyed and
refuses to answer the question; instead, the power causes the wizard to perform some
service (by an ultrapowerful geas or quest). If the dice total 7 to 9, the power is
indifferent and gives some minor vision, though it may be unrelated to the question. If the
dice total 10 or better, the power grants the vision.
The material component of the spell is the sacrifice of something valued by the
spellcaster or by the power supplicated. The more precious the sacrifice, the better the
chance of spell success. A very precious item grants a bonus of +1 to the dice roll, an
extremely precious item adds +2, and a priceless item adds +3.

 Zombie Double (Necromancy) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a ju-ju zombie duplicate of the caster. The zombie double has the 
same memories, consciousness, and alignment as the caster; essentially, the caster now 
exists in two bodies simultaneously. In all other respects, the zombie double is the same 
as a normal ju-ju zombie (AC 6; MV 9; HD 3+12; #AT 1; Dmg 3-12; SA strike as a 6 
HD monster; SD immune to all mind-affecting spells, including illusions; immune to 
sleep, charm, hold, death magic, magic missiles, electricity, poisons, and cold-based 
spells; edged and cleaving weapons inflict normal damage while blunt and piercing 
weapons inflict half- damage; magical and normal fire inflicts half-damage); THAC0 16. 
The zombie double cannot cast spells, but it can use any weapons that the caster can 
use. It is also able to climb walls as a thief (92 percent). The zombie double can be turned 
as a spectre. If it strays more than 30 yards from the caster, the zombie double becomes 
inactive and collapses to the ground; it becomes active again the instant the caster moves 
within 30 yards. 
The material components for this spell are a bit of wax from a black candle and a lock 
of hair from the caster

 Seventh-Level Spells

 Age Dragon (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One dragon
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell allows the caster to cause any dragon to temporarily gain or lose one age 
level per five levels of the caster. For instance, a 14th-level caster could cause a dragon to 
gain or lose two age levels; a mature adult dragon could be temporarily transformed into 
a young adult dragon or into a very old dragon. A dragon's age cannot be reduced below
hatchling or increased beyond great wyrm. 
Unwilling dragons are allowed a saving throw vs. spells with a -4 penalty to avoid the 
effect.
A dragon affected by age dragon temporarily acquires the armor class, hit points, 
spell abilities, combat modifiers, size, and other attributes of his new age level. The 
dragon retains his memories and personality. At the end of the spell's duration, the dragon 
returns to his normal age level.
If the dragon suffered damage while experiencing his modified age, these hit points 
remain lost when he resumes his normal age. If the dragon loses more hit points at his 
modified age than he has at his actual age, he dies when the spell expires. For example, a 
young adult bronze dragon with 110 hit points is aged to a mature adult with 120 hit 
points. The dragon suffers 115 hit points in combat. Unless the dragon is healed of 6 
points of damage before the spell expires, the dragon dies at the end of the spell since his 
damage is greater than his actual hit points.
If a dragon is killed while under the effect of age dragon, he is dead at the end of the 
spell's duration.
The material component is a handful of dirt taken from a dragon's footprint. 

 Animate Rock
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: 40 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 2 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: None
By employing an animate rock spell, the caster causes a stone object of up to the
indicated size to move (see the 6th-level animate object spell.). The animated stone
object must be separate (not a part of a huge boulder or the like). It follows the desire of
the caster--attacking, breaking objects, blocking--while the magic lasts. It has no
intelligence or volition of its own, but it follows instructions exactly as spoken. Only one
set of instructions for one single action can be given to the animated rock, and the
directions must be brief, about a dozen words or so. The rock remains animated for one
round per experience level of the caster. The volume of rock that can be animated is also
based on the experience level of the caster--2 cubic feet of stone per level, such as 24
cubic feet, a mass of about man-sized, at 12th level.
While the exact details of the animated rock are decided by the DM, its Armor Class is
no worse than 5, and it has 1d3 hit points per cubic foot of volume. It uses the attack roll
of the caster. The maximum damage it can inflict is 1d2 points per caster level. Thus, a
12th-level caster's rock might inflict 12 to 24 points of damage. Movement for a man-sized 
rock is 60 feet per round. A rock generally weighs from 100 to 300 pounds per
cubic foot.
The material components for the spell are a stone and drop of the caster's blood.

 Astral Spell
(Alteration)
Sphere: Astral
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: _ hour
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, a priest is able to project his astral body into the Astral plane,
leaving his physical body and material possessions behind on the Prime Material plane.
As the Astral plane touches upon the first levels of all the outer planes, the priest can
travel astrally to the first level of any of these outer planes as he wills. The priest then
leaves the Astral plane, forming a body on the plane of existence he has chosen to enter.
It is also possible to travel astrally anywhere in the Prime Material plane by means of the
astral spell. However, a second body cannot be formed on the Prime Material plane.
As a general rule, a person astrally projected can be seen only by creatures on the
Astral plane. The astral body is connected at all times to the material body by a silvery
cord. If the cord is broken, the affected person is killed, astrally and materially, but
generally only the psychic wind can cause the cord to break. When a second body is
formed on a different plane, the silvery cord remains invisibly attached to the new body.
If the second body or astral form is slain, the cord simply returns to the caster's body
where the body rests on the Prime Material plane, reviving it from its state of suspended
animation. Although astral projections are able to function on the Astral plane, their
actions affect only creatures existing on the Astral plane; a physical body must be
materialized on other planes.
The spell lasts until the priest desires to end it, or until it is terminated by some outside
means, such as dispel magic spell or destruction of the priest's body on the Prime
Material plane--which kills the priest. The priest can project the astral forms of up to
seven other creatures with himself by means of the astral spell, providing the creatures
are linked in a circle with the priest. These fellow travelers are dependent upon the priest
and can be stranded if something happens to the priest. Travel in the Astral plane can be
slow or fast, according to the priest's desire. The ultimate destination arrived at is subject
to the desire of the priest.

 Breath of Life (Necromantic) Reversible 
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None 
This powerful spell enables the caster to cure many persons (even an entire 
community) who are afflicted with a nonmagical disease. The priest need not touch or 
even see the diseased people for the spell to be effective, although recipients must be 
within the area of effect.
This spell does not cure all diseases in the community at one time; the caster must 
specifically state which disease is to be eliminated (black plague or yellow fever, for 
example) with each casting of the spell.
When the spell is cast, the priest exhales a sweet-smelling breath. This forms into a 
breeze that radiates outward, forming a circle that expands in a 50-yard radius per hour. 
During this time, the caster must remain at the center of the area of effect. For example, 
after 12 hours, the breath of life would cover a circle 1200 yards in diameter (600-yard 
radius). The breath is of a magical nature rather than a physical nature; therefore, it is 
unaffected by prevailing winds.
The breeze blows through the community, instantly eliminating the specified disease 
from all afflicted citizens. The breath of life spell does not destroy parasitic monsters 
(such as green slime, rot grubs, and others), nor does it cure lycanthropy or other magical 
afflictions. The spell does not prevent recurrence of a disease if the recipients are again 
exposed.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a cone of incense that has 
been blessed by the highest priest of the character's religion.
The breath of death, which produces a foul-smelling wind, is the reverse of this spell. 
Victims who fail a saving throw vs. death magic are afflicted with a nonmagical, fatal 
disease. To determine the results of this spell, the DM should roll saving throws for major 
NPCs in the area of effect. The effect on the rest of the community can be calculated as a 
percentage, based on the saving throw.
Infected creatures do not heal hit points until the disease is cured. The disease is fatal 
within 1d6 weeks (the duration varies from person to person).
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a handful of dust taken 
from a mummy's corpse. 

 Changestaff
(Evocation, Enchantment)
Sphere: Plant, Creation
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster's staff Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster is able to change a specially prepared staff into a
treantlike creature of the largest size, about 24 feet tall. When the priest plants the end of
the staff in the ground and speaks a special command and invocation, the staff turns into
a treantlike creature with 12 Hit Dice, 40 hit points, and Armor Class 0. It attacks twice
per round, inflicting 4d6 points of damage with every successful attack. The staff-treant
defends the caster and obeys any spoken commands. However, it is by no means a true
treant; it cannot converse with actual treants or control trees. The transformation lasts
either for as many turns as the caster has experience levels, until the caster commands the
staff to return to its true form, or until the staff is destroyed, whichever occurs first. If the
staff-treant is reduced to 0 hit points or less, it crumbles to a sawdustlike powder and the
staff is destroyed. Otherwise, the staff can be used again after 24 hours and the stafftreant is at full strength.
To cast a changestaff spell, the caster must have either his holy symbol or leaves (ash,
oak, or yew) of the same sort as the staff.
The staff for the changestaff spell must be specially prepared. The staff must be a
sound limb cut from an ash, oak, or yew tree struck by lightning no more than 24 hours
before the limb is cut. The limb must then be cured by sun drying and special smoke for
28 days. Then it must be shaped, carved, and polished for another 28 days. The caster
cannot adventure or engage in other strenuous activity during either of these periods. The
finished staff, engraved with woodland scenes, is then rubbed with the juice of holly
berries, and the end of it is thrust into the earth of the caster's grove while he casts a
speak with plant spell, calling upon the staff to assist in time of need. The item is then
charged with a magic that will last for many changes from staff to treant and back again.

 Chariot of Sustarre
(Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire), Creation
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 12 hours Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, it brings forth a large, flaming chariot pulled by two fiery
horses from the elemental plane of Fire. These appear in a clap of thunder amid a cloud
of smoke. The vehicle moves at 24 on the ground, 48 flying, and can carry the caster and
up to seven other creatures of man-size or less. The passengers must be touched by the
caster to protect them from the flames of the chariot. Creatures other than the caster and
his designated passengers sustain 2d4 points of fire damage each round if they come
within 5 feet of the horses or chariot. Such creatures suffer no damage if they evade the
area by rolling successful saving throws vs. petrification, with Dexterity adjustments.
The caster controls the chariot by verbal command, causing the flaming steeds to stop
or go, walk, trot, run or fly, and turn left or right as he desires. Note that the chariot of
Sustarre is a physical manifestation and can sustain damage. The vehicle and steeds are
struck only by magical weapons or by water (one quart of which inflicts 1 point of
damage). They are Armor Class 2, and each requires 30 points of damage to dispel.
Naturally, fire has no effect upon either the vehicle or its steeds, but magical fires other
than those of the chariot can affect the riders. Other spells, such as a successful dispel
magic or holy word, will force the chariot back to its home plane, without its passengers.
The chariot can be summoned only once per week.
The material components are a small piece of wood, two holly berries, and a fire
source at least equal to a torch.

 Confusion
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1d4 creatures in 40-ft. sq. Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes confusion in one or more creatures within the area, creating
indecision and the inability to take effective action. The spell affects 1d4 creatures, plus
one creature per two caster levels. Thus, seven to ten creatures can be affected by a 12th
 or 13th-level caster, eight to 11 by a 14th- or 15th-level caster, etc. These creatures are
allowed saving throws vs. spell with -2 penalties, adjusted for Wisdom. Those
successfully saving are unaffected by the spell. Confused creatures react as follows (roll
1d10):

d10  | Reaction
 1   | Wander away (unless prevented) for duration of spell
2-6  | Stand confused one round (then roll again)
7-9  | Attack nearest creature for one round (then roll again)
 10  | Act normally for one round (then roll again)

The spell lasts one round for each level of the caster. Those who fail their saving
throws are checked by the DM for actions each round, for the duration of the spell, or
until the "wander away for the duration of the spell" result occurs.
Wandering creatures move as far from the caster as possible in their most typical mode
of movement (characters walk, fish swim, bats fly, etc.). This is not panicked flight.
Wandering creatures also have a 50% chance of using any special innate movement
abilities (plane shift, burrowing, flight, etc.). Saving throws and actions are checked at the
beginning of each round. Any confused creature that is attacked perceives the attacker as
an enemy and acts according to its basic nature.
The material component of this spell is a set of three nut shells.
Note: If there are many creatures involved, the DM may decide to assume average
results. For example, if there are 16 orcs affected and 25% could be expected to
successfully roll the saving throw, then four are assumed to have succeeded, one wanders
away, four attack the nearest creature, six stand confused and the last acts normally but
must check next round. Since the orcs are not near the party, the DM decides that two
who are supposed to attack the nearest creature attack each other, one attacks an orc that
saved, and one attacks a confused orc, which strikes back. The next round, the base is 11
orcs, since four originally saved and one wandered off. Another one wanders off, five
stands confused, four attack, and one acts normally.

 Conjure Earth Elemental
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Earth), Summoning
Range: 40 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
A caster who performs a conjure earth elemental spell summons an earth elemental to
do his bidding. The elemental is 60% likely to have 12 Hit Dice, 35% likely to have 16
Hit Dice, and 5% likely have 21 to 24 Hit Dice (20 + 1d4). Further, the caster needs but
to command it, and it does as desired. The elemental regards the caster as a friend to be
obeyed. The elemental remains until destroyed, dispelled, sent away by dismissal or a
holy word spell (see the conjure fire elemental spell), or the spell duration expires.

 Control Weather
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4d12 hours Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 4d4 sq. miles Saving Throw: None
The control weather spell enables a priest to change the weather in the local area. The
spell affects the weather for 4d12 hours in an area of 4d4 square miles. It requires one
turn to cast the spell, and an additional 1d4 turns for the effects of the spell to be felt. The
current weather conditions are decided by the DM, depending on the climate and season.
Weather conditions have three components: precipitation, temperature, and wind. The
spell can change these conditions according to the following chart:

Precipitation               |   Temperature    |    Wind           |
CLEAR WEATHER               |     HOT          |    CALM           |
 Very clear                 | Sweltering heat  |  Dead calm        |
 Light clouds or hazy       | Warm             | Light wind        |
PARTLY CLOUDY               | WARM             | Moderate wind     |
 Clear weather              | Hot              | MODERATE WIND     |
Cloudy                      | Cool             | Calm              |
 Mist/light rain/small hail | COOL             | Strong wind       |
 Sleet/light snow           | Warm             | STRONG WIND       |
CLOUDY                      | Cold             | Moderate wind     |
 Partly cloudy              | COLD             | Gale              |
 Deep clouds                | Cool             | GALE              |
 Fog Arctic                 | cold             | Strong wind       |
 Heavy rain/large hail      |                  | Storm             |
Driving sleet/heavy snow    |                  | STORM             |
                            |                  | Gale              |
                            |                  | Hurricane-typhoon |

The upper-case headings represent existing weather conditions. The lower-case
headings below are the new conditions to which the caster can change the existing
conditions. In addition, the caster can control the direction of the wind. For example, a
day that is clear, warm, and with moderate wind can be controlled to become hazy, hot,
and calm. Contradictions are not possible--fog and strong wind, for example. Multiple
control weather spells can be used only in succession.
The material components for this spell are the priest's religious symbol, incense, and
prayer beads or similar prayer object. Obviously, the spell functions only in areas where
there are appropriate climatic conditions.
If Weather is a major sphere for the priest (as it is for druids), duration and area are
doubled, and the caster can change the prevailing weather by two places. For example, he
can cause precipitation to go from partly cloudy to heavy sleet, temperature to go from
cool to arctic, and wind to go from calm to strong.

 Creeping Doom
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Animal, Summoning
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 4 rds./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When the caster utters the spell of creeping doom, he calls forth a mass of from 500 to
1,000 ([1d6 + 4] x 100) venomous, biting and stinging arachnids, insects, and myriapods.
This carpetlike mass swarms in an area 20 feet square. Upon command from the caster,
the swarm creeps forth at 10 feet per round toward any prey within 80 yards, moving in
the direction in which the caster commands. The creeping doom slays any creature
subject to normal attacks, as each of the small horrors inflicts 1 point of damage (each
then dies after its attack), so that up to 1,000 points of damage can be inflicted on
creatures within the path of the creeping doom. If the creeping doom travels more than 80
yards away from the summoner, it loses 50 of its number for each 10 yards beyond 80
yards. For example, at 100 yards, its number has shrunk by 100. There are a number of
ways to thwart or destroy the creatures forming the swarm. The solutions are left to the
imaginations of players and DMs.

 Divine Inspiration (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought, Divination
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell is a more powerful version of the genius spell. The priest's player may ask 
the DM one question about the current situation or about events that will occur within the 
next five rounds. Questions about the future must relate to external events, such as "Will 
he guards respond to the sentry's yell?" Questions cannot refer to the outcome of combat, 
such as "Will we win the battle?" The priest's player is allowed to use this spell to ask the 
DM for advice. In this case, the spell is the equivalent of asking the gods, "Okay, how do 
we get out of this one?"
Like the genius spell, the DM must be careful in adjudicating this spell. The answer 
to the question is always relevant and correct, although not necessarily complete. The 
answer can also be cryptic, in the form of a riddle or rhyme, depending on the DM's 
assessment of the situation and how potentially unbalancing the answer might be. In 
general, the answer will be a short phrase of no more than eight to ten words.
The material component is a gem of at least 500 gp value. This spell can be cast only 
once in any 24-hour period. 

 Earthquake
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd. Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 5-ft. diameter/level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast by a priest, a local tremor of fairly high strength rips the ground.
The shock is over in one round. The earthquake affects all terrain, vegetation, structures,
and creatures in its area of effect. The area of effect of the earthquake spell is circular,
with a diameter of 5 feet for every experience level of the priest casting it. Thus a 20th
 level priest casts an earthquake spell with a 100-foot-diameter area of effect.
Solidly built structures with foundations reaching down to bedrock sustain one-half
damage; one-quarter damage if they score above 50% on a saving throw. An earth
elemental opposed to the caster in the area of effect can negate 10% to 100% (roll 1d10, 0
= 100%) of the effect. Other magical protections and wards allowed by the DM may also
reduce or negate this effect. If cast undersea, this spell may, at the discretion of the DM,
create a tsunami or tidal wave.
The material components for this spell are a pinch of dirt, a piece of rock, and a lump
of clay.

Earthquake Effects

TERRAIN
Cave or cavern--Collapses roof
Cliffs--Crumble, causing landslide
Ground--Cracks open, causing the following fractions of creatures to fall in and die:
Size S: 1 in 4
Size M: 1 in 6
Size L: 1 in 8
Marsh--Drains water to form muddy, rough ground.
Tunnel--Caves in
VEGETATION
Small growth--No effect
Trees--1 in 3 are uprooted and fall
STRUCTURES
All structures--Sustain 5d12 points of structural damage; those suffering full damage are
thrown down in rubble
CREATURES (See TERRAIN entry)

 Exaction
(Evocation, Alteration)
Sphere: Charm, Summoning
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is employed, the priest confronts some powerful creature from another
plane (including devas and other powerful minions, for instance, but not demigods or
deities of any sort) and requires of it some duty or quest. A creature of an alignment
opposed to the priest (e.g., evil if the priest is good, chaotic if the priest is lawful) cannot
be ordered around unless it is willing. Note that an absolute (true) neutral creature is
effectively opposed to both good and evil, and both law and chaos.
The spellcaster must know something about the creature to exact service from it, or
else he must offer some fair trade in return for the service. That is, if the priest is aware
that the creature has received some favor from someone of the priest's alignment, then the
exaction spell can name this as cause. If no balancing reason for service is known, then
some valuable gift or service must be pledged in return for the exaction. The service
exacted must be reasonable with respect to the past or promised favor or reward, and with
the being's effort and risk. The spell then acts, subject to a magic resistance roll, as a
quest upon the being that is to perform the required service. Immediately upon
completion of the service, the being is transported to the vicinity of the priest, and the
priest must then and there return the promised reward, whether it is irrevocable
cancellation of a past debt or the giving of some service or other material reward. After
this is done, the creature is instantly freed to return to its own plane.
The DM adjudicates when an equitable arrangement has been reached. If the caster
requests too much, the creature is free to depart or to attack the priest (as if the agreement
were breached) according to its nature. If circumstances leave the situation unbalanced
(for example, the creature dies while achieving a result that was not worth dying for),
then this might create a debt owed by the caster to the creature's surviving kith and kin,
making the caster vulnerable to a future exaction spell from that quarter. Agreeing to a
future exaction or release in the event of catastrophic failure or death are common caster
pledges in securing an exaction.
Failure to fulfill the promise to the letter results in the priest being subject to exaction
by the subject creature or by its master, liege, etc., at the very least. At worst, the creature
can attack the reneging priest without fear of any of his spells affecting it, for the priest's
failure to live up to the bargain gives the creature immunity from the priest's spell
powers.
The material components of this spell are the priest's holy symbol, some matter or
substance from the plane of the creature from whom an exaction is expected, and
knowledge of the creature's nature or actions that is written out on a parchment that is
burned to seal the pledge.

 Fire Storm
(Evocation)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 160 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd. Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: two 10-ft. cubes/level Saving Throw: _
When a fire storm spell is cast, the whole area is shot through with sheets of roaring
flame that equal a wall of fire spell in effect. Creatures within the area of fire and 10 feet
or less from the edge of the affected area receive 2d8 points of damage plus additional
damage equal to the caster's level (2d8 +1/level). Creatures that roll successful saving
throws vs. spell suffer only one-half damage. The damage is inflicted each round the
creature stays in the area of effect. The area of effect is equal to two 10-foot x 10-foot
cubes per level of the cater--e.g., a 13th-level caster can cast a fire storm measuring 130
feet x 20 feet x 10 feet. The height of the storm is 10 or 20 feet; the imbalance of its area
must be in length and width.
The reverse spell, fire quench, smothers twice the area of effect of a fire storm spell
with respect to normal fires, and the normal area of effect with respect to magical fires.
Fire-based creatures, such as elementals, salamanders, etc., of less than demigod status
have a 5% chance per experience level of the caster of being extinguished. If cast only
against a flametongue sword, the sword must roll a successful saving throw vs. crushing
blow or be rendered nonmagical. Such a sword in the possession of a creature first
receives the creature's saving throw, and if this is successful, the second saving throw is
automatically successful.

 Gate
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Casting a gate spell has two effects: it causes an interdimensional connection between
the plane of existence the priest is in and the plane in which dwells a specific being of
great power. The result of this connection is that the sought-after being can step through
the gate or portal, from its plane to that of the priest. Uttering the spell attracts the
attention of the dweller on the other plane. When casting the spell, the priest must name
the entity he desires to make use of the gate and to come to his aid. There is a 100%
chance that something steps through the gate. The actions of the being that comes through
depend on many factors, including the alignment of the priest, the nature of those
accompanying him, and who or what opposes or threatens the priest. The DM will decide
the exact result of the spell, based on the creature called, the desires of the caster and the
needs of the moment. The being gates in either returns immediately or remains to take
action. Casting this spell ages the priest five years.

 Holy Word
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Combat
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
Uttering a holy word spell creates magic of tremendous power. It drives off evil
creatures from other planes, forcing them to return to their own planes of existence,
provided the speaker is in his home plane. Creatures so banished cannot return for at least
a day. The spell further affects creatures of differing alignment as shown on the following
table:

Effects of Holy Word

Creature's
Hit Dice or Level | General               | Attack Move | Dice | Spells
Less than 4       | Kills                 | --          | --   | --
4 to 7+           | Paralyzes 1d4 turns   | --          | --   | --
8 to 11+          | Slows 2d4 rounds      | -50%        | -4*  | --
12 or more        | Deafens 1d4 rounds    | -25%        | -2   | 50% chance of failure

 * Slowed creatures attack only on even-numbered rounds until the effect wears off.

Affected creatures are those within the 30-foot-radius area of effect, which is centered
on the priest casting the spell. The side effects are negated for deafened or silenced
creatures, but such are still driven off if other-planar.
The reverse, unholy word, operates exactly the same way but affects creatures of good
alignment.

 Hovering Road (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to create a magical 10-foot-wide road extending 10 feet 
in front of him. The caster can create an unbroken road for the duration of the spell, 
creating a 10-foot area ahead of him as long as he continues to move forward.
The road is approximately one foot thick and hovers in the air. It has the texture and 
color of black granite. Characters and creatures can move on the hovering road at their 
normal movement rate, ignoring the effects of surrounding terrain.
The hovering road must originate from a solid surface. Once anchored, the caster 
controls the contour of the road, causing it to rise and fall as he wishes. The road can thus 
be used to traverse rivers (if the road is anchored on the shore), swamps, and similarly 
hostile terrain. The caster can cause the hovering road to rise over a jungle or cross a 
chasm.
The road has AC 0. It is impervious to non-magical weapons. If the road suffers 100 
points of damage (from magical weapons or other magical forces), it dissipates in a black 
mist; all those on the road fall to the ground below.
Unless the road is destroyed, the entire hovering road remains intact from beginning 
to end for the duration of the spell, even if the caster is killed or incapacitated. At the end 
of the spell's duration, the entire road dissipates.
The material components are a chunk of black marble and a loop of gold wire. 

 Illusory Fortification (Illusion/Phantasm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 240 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 10 turns
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
The ritual required to cast this spell is time-consuming and extremely complex. As its 
name implies, illusory fortification creates an illusion of a wall of heavy stonework up to 
30 feet tall and 160 yards long, topped with crenellations. The illusory wall can be of any 
color and apparent age, potentially allowing the caster to match the false wall with the 
real walls of an existing castle. The illusory wall must be continuous (it cannot form two 
or more shorter walls), but it can follow any corners or bends that the caster desires.
In addition to the wall, the spell creates the illusion of constant movement among the 
crenellations, as if defending troops were moving atop the wall. The formation of the 
crenellations makes it impossible for a distant observer to determine exactly how many 
and what types of defenders are present on the illusory fortification.
The illusory wall remains in existence for 2d12 hours unless the spell is terminated 
earlier.
The spell has one very significant limitation: it is strictly two-dimensional and is 
visible from only one side (the side that the caster deems to be the "outside"). When 
viewed from the outside, the wall appears real; when viewed from the end, from above, 
or from the "inside," the wall is totally invisible except for a faint outline of the shape of 
the wall. This means that friendly troops, concealed from enemy view by the illusory 
wall, can see their opponents clearly. The wall is most effective if friendly troops are 
informed of the wall's presence and are careful not to walk through the illusion. Such an 
occurrence does not end the spell, but it will probably advise the enemy of the nature of 
the wall.
Spells cast at the wall and shots fired at the illusory fortification by siege engines 
appear to strike the wall and inflict normal damage. In reality, the missiles or spells pass 
through the illusion, possibly striking troops or real fortifications beyond. Such "hits" do 
not disturb the illusion.
As soon as an enemy unit moves within 10 yards of the illusory fortification, the spell 
terminates and the wall vanishes.
There are two ways in which the spell can be terminated before it expires. First, the 
priest can terminate the spell at any time. Second, if a friendly unit makes an attack, 
whether melee or missile combat, through the illusory wall from the "inside" to the 
"outside," the spell terminates instantly.
Once the illusory fortification has been created, the priest does not need to 
concentrate on the wall. The spell remains in effect even if the casting priest is killed in 
the interim.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol, a handful of stones, powdered 
mortar, and a gem worth at least 3,000 gp. All components except the holy symbol are 
consumed in the casting. 

 Mind Tracker (Divination) 
Sphere: Divination
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn/3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Special
The mind tracker is a magically-created creature which exists only on the Ethereal 
plane. It is called into existence when the first portion of this spell is cast.
When seen (which is seldom), the mind tracker has an indistinct body. It seems to be 
a near-solid coalescence of the vaporous atmosphere of the Ethereal plane itself. It is a 
roughly elliptical body with three or more limbs protruding at seemingly random 
locations. The number and size of these appendages shifts slowly, however, as new ones 
appear from the mist and old ones disappear. The body of the creature averages 2 feet 
across and 3 feet long, though this, too, tends to vary from minute to minute. The mind 
tracker has no discernible eyes, ears, nose, or other organs. It cannot be engaged in 
combat; if attacked, it simply disappears, to reappear after the danger has passed, or 
somewhere else entirely if its quarry has moved on. 
The ceremony which creates the mind tracker takes one turn to perform. Its material 
components are a whiff of the Ethereal plane's atmosphere and the brain of a lizard.
Once the tracker is manifested, it must be assigned a quarry within one hour. If no 
quarry is designated, the tracker dissipates and the spell is wasted.
To assign a quarry to the tracker, the priest must have the quarry within his sight. This 
includes magical sight such as true seeing, but not remote sighting devices such as crystal 
balls. With the quarry in sight, the priest mouths the final phrases of the spell. From that 
point on, the mind tracker is mentally tethered to the victim. It follows its quarry (staying 
always in the Ethereal plane) wherever it goes. It constantly relays information about the 
subject to the priest: what it is doing, where it is. The priest does not actually see an 
image of the quarry, he receives `reports' from the mind tracker. These reports contain 
only such information as the tracker can gather by looking. It cannot identify people the 
quarry is talking to, but can describe them in great detail. Nor can it hear anything the 
quarry or anyone else says, or read writing, but it recognizes and can report the fact that 
speaking or reading is happening. 
While the tracker is dogging its quarry, its presence can be felt as an eery, creepy 
sensation of being watched. If the victim makes an initial save vs. paralyzation, each of 
the following stages lasts three hours instead of two. For the first two hours, the quarry 
has a general feeling of ill ease. In the third and fourth hours, the victim is distracted and 
nervous, and suffers a -1 penalty on all saving throws. In the fifth and sixth hours, the 
victim is convinced someone or something is following him and suffers a -3 penalty on 
saving throws and a -2 (or -10%) penalty on all other dice rolls. After six hours the victim 
is near his breaking point. He is unable to concentrate to cast spells or use any of his 
class's special abilities. All die rolls have a -5 (or -25%) penalty. After eight hours, he 
must make a saving throw vs. paralyzation. If he fails, he collapses, fevered and delirious. 
This state persists until the tracker ceases to exist. 
The mind tracker continues to exist for as long as the priest remains conscious of its 
input. If the priest is knocked out or falls asleep, or simply dismisses his creation, the 
tracker dissipates. 

 Regenerate
(Necrmancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromatic
Range: Touch Components: V,S,M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 3 rounds
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
When a regenerate spell is cast, body members (fingers, toes, hands, feet, arms, legs,
tails, or even heads of multi-headed creatues), bones, and organs grow back. The process
of regeneration requies but one round if the severed member(s) is (are) present and
touching the creature, 2d4turns otherwise. The creature must be lving to receive the
benefits of this spell. If the severed member is not present, or if the injury isolder than
ond day per caste level, the recipient must roll a successful system shock check to survive
the spell.
The revers, wither, causes the member or organ touched to cease functioning in one
round, dropping off into dust in 2d4 turns. Creatures must be touched for the harmful
effect to occur.
The material components of this spell are a prayer device and holy water (or unholy
water for the reverse).

 Reincarnate
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the priest can bring back a dead person in another body, if death
occurred no more than one week before the casting of the spell. Reincarnation does not
require any saving throw, system shock, or resurrection survival roll. The corpse is
touched, and a new incarnation of the person appears in the area in 1d6 turns. The person
reincarnated recalls the majority of his former life and form, but the character class, if
any, of the new incarnation might be very different indeed. The new incarnation is
determined on the following table or by DM choice. If a player character race is
indicated, the character must be created. At the DM's option, certain special (expensive)
incenses can be used that may increase the chance for a character to return as a specific
race or species. A wish spell can restore a reincarnated character to its original form and
status.

D100
Roll Incarnation
01-03 Badger
04-08 Bear, black
09-12 Bear, brown
13-16 Boar, wild
17-19 Centaur
20-23 Dryad
24-28 Eagle
29-31 Elf
32-34 Faun/satyr
35-36 Fox
37-40 Gnome
41-44 Hawk
45-58 Human
59-61 Lynx
62-64 Owl
65-68 Pixie
69-70 Raccoon
71-75 Stag
76-80 Wolf
81-85 Wolverine
86-00 DM's choice

If an unusual creature form is indicated, the DM can (at his option only) use the
guidelines for new player character races to allow the character to earn experience and
advance in levels, although this may not be in the same class as before. If the reincarnated
character returns as a creature eligible to be the same class as he was previously (i.e., a
human fighter returns as an elf), the reincarnated character has half his previous levels
and hit points. If the character returns as a new character class, his hit points are half his
previous total, but he must begin again at 1st level. If the character returns as a creature
unable to have a class, he has half the hit points and saving throws of his previous
incarnation.

 Restoration
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the life energy level of the recipient creature is raised by one.
This reverses any previous life energy level drain of the creature by a force or monster.
Thus, if a 10th-level character had been struck by a wight and drained to 9th level, the
restoration spell would bring the character up to exactly the number of experience points
necessary to restore him to 10th level once again, restoring additional Hit Dice (or hit
points) and level functions accordingly. Restoration is effective only if the spell is cast
within one day of the recipient's loss of life energy, per experience level of the priest
casting it. A restoration spell restores the intelligence of a creature affected by a
feeblemind spell. It also negates all forms of insanity. Casting this spell ages both the
caster and the recipient by two years.
The reverse, energy drain, draws away one life energy level (see such undead as
spectre, wight, and vampire, in the Monstrous Manual). The energy drain requires the
victim to be touched. Casting this form of the spell does not age the caster.

 Resurrection
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The priest is able to restore life and complete strength to any living creature, including
elves, by bestowing the resurrection spell. The creature can have been dead up to 10
years per level of the priest casting the spell. Thus, a 19th-level priest can resurrect the
bones of a creature dead up to 190 years. The creature, upon surviving a resurrection
survival check, is immediately restored to full hit points and can perform strenuous
activity. The spell cannot bring back a creature that has reached its allotted life span (i.e.,
died of natural causes). Casting this spell makes it impossible for the priest to cast further
spells or engage in combat until he has had one day of bed rest for each experience level
or Hit Die of the creature brought back to life. The caster ages three years upon casting
this spell.
The reverse, destruction, causes the victim of the spell to be instantly dead and turned
to dust. A wish spell or equivalent is required for recovery. Destruction requires a touch,
either in combat or otherwise, and does not age the caster. In addition, the victim is
allowed a saving throw (with a -4 penalty). If the save is successful, the victim receives
8d6 points of damage instead.
The material components of the spell are the priest's religious symbol and holy water
(unholy water for the reverse spell). The DM may reduce the chances of successful
resurrection if little of the creature's remains are available.

 Shadow Engines (Illusion/Phantasm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 240 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 8 turns
Casting Time: 3 turns
Area of Effect: 180-yard x 180-yard square
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates the illusion of as many as four siege engines. The casting priest may 
choose from ballistae, siege towers, catapults, rams, or any combination thereof. Like the 
creatures created by the spell shadow monsters, these illusory engines have at least a 
tenuous reality and can inflict damage on enemies.
Shadow engines are accompanied by illusory crews of the appropriate number and 
race. The engines can move at a rate of 20 yards per turn and are unaffected by terrain 
considerations. (The caster can choose to slow them when passing through rough terrain 
to aid the illusion of reality.) 
Shadow engines cannot carry real troops. They can be fired at the same rate as real 
engines of the appropriate type, but a hit causes only one-half the damage normal for that 
type of engine (round fractions down).
A shadow engine remains in existence until the spell duration expires, until an enemy 
unit approaches within 10 yards, or until it suffers damage from an enemy missile attack. 
When any of these conditions occur, the engine vanishes. If a single spell has created 
multiple engines, only the engine struck vanishes; the others remain.
The crew associated with a shadow engine must remain with that engine; it cannot 
move more than 5 yards away from the engine itself.
Shadow engines can move independently of other engines created by the spell as long 
as they remain within the area of effect and remain within 240 yards of the caster. The 
caster must maintain concentration to control the shadow engines. He cannot cast any 
other spells, and he is limited to a movement rate of 6. If the caster is struck for damage, 
the shadow engines vanish.
The material component is a finely detailed miniature model of a siege engine (of any 
type), which is consumed during the casting. 

 Spacewarp (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 50 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 50-foot-diameter sphere
Saving Throw: None
According to one view of the universe, what we perceive as gravity is actually a 
localized warping of the fabric of space-time. The spacewarp spell creates a temporary 
but very intense warping in a limited area.
When the priest casts this spell, he selects a specific point to be the center of effect. 
This point may be anywhere within 50 yards of the caster, including in midair.
When the spell is completed, this center of effect gains a gravity field equal to the 
force felt at the surface of the earth. In other words, gravity is centered at this point; 
everything within 50 feet of this center that is not attached to something immovable will 
fall toward the selected point.
This localized gravity affects only loose objects and creatures capable of movement 
(i.e., not trees, whose roots are buried in the ground). It does not affect the ground itself--
soil, plants, desert sand, lake water, etc. are immune to the effect.
An object falling toward the center of gravity gains speed exactly as it would if it 
were falling toward the ground. When the object reaches the center, it instantly ceases its 
movement. If objects are already at the center, newly arriving objects will slam into them, 
causing normal falling damage (1d6 per 10 feet) to the newly arriving objects. Objects 
previously at the center must save vs. paralyzation or suffer half that amount of damage.
Consider the following example. An orc is 10 feet away from the center of effect 
when the spell is cast. He falls 10 feet to the center and stops. His companion, a bandit, is 
30 feet from the center. It takes him longer to fall to the center, so the orc is already there 
when he arrives, and the two characters collide forcefully. The bandit suffers 3d6 hit 
points of damage--the falling damage associated with a 30-foot fall. The orc must save 
vs. paralyzation or suffer half that amount.
Other things are caught in the effect as well. The bandit's horse was 50 feet away 
from the center of effect, so it arrives at the center after the orc and the bandit. It falls 50 
feet, suffering 5d6 points of damage, and potentially inflicting half that amount on both 
the orc and the bandit.
The center of effect can be anywhere within 50 yards of the priest. Possibly one of the 
most destructive uses of this spell is to cast it directly on an enemy creature. Everyone 
and everything within 50 feet of that creature falls toward him and strikes him, inflicting 
damage.
When the spell terminates, gravity returns to normal. If the spell has lifted any 
characters or objects off the ground, they immediately fall back to the ground, suffering 
the appropriate amount of falling damage.
The material components are a lodestone and a sphere of obsidian, both of which are 
consumed in the casting. 

 Spirit of Power (Summoning, Invocation) 
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour
Casting Time: 3 turns
Area of Effect: The casters
Saving Throw: None
This cooperative spell is rarely used or spoken of, since its requirements are strict and 
the outcome is uncertain. The spell must be cast by six priests of the same faith. All six 
must touch hands at the time of casting. At the completion of the spell, the priests fall 
into a trance. The life essences of the priests leave their bodies and merge at a point 
within 10 feet of the casters. The spirits of the priests meld together to form the avatar of 
the priests' deity.
In this manner, the six characters become a single being with all the powers and 
abilities allowed to that avatar. The only stipulation is that the priests' deity cannot have 
created all avatars allowed to it at that moment. If this has happened, the spell fails and 
the priests are drained as described below.
If the spell succeeds, the priests have completely given their wills over to their deity, 
essentially forming the vessel into which it funnels power. In becoming the avatar, the 
priests retain the ability to make most of their own decisions. (The six must work in 
harmony or allow one of their number to decide all actions.) However, the deity can 
assume direct control of the avatar at any time it desires--the avatar is, after all, an earthly 
manifestation of the deity.
Although the spell has a duration of one hour, the deity is not obliged to release the 
priests at that time. If the priests are not released at the end of the spell's duration, they 
instantly die. A deity can choose to sacrifice its priests in order to maintain its avatar on 
the Prime Material plane. Such a cruel and unjust action is almost never undertaken by 
good deities or those that have any respect for life, free will, or mercy. For dark and 
sinister gods, the question is much more uncertain. If a deity chooses to maintain the 
avatar longer than one hour, control of the avatar instantly and permanently passes to the 
DM. (Clearly, a DM should seldom if ever exercise this power.)
While the priests are formed into the avatar, their bodies remain in a death like trance. 
The priests have no idea what might be happening to their real bodies (unless the avatar 
can observe them). Any damage to a priest's body requires an instant system shock roll. If 
successful, the damage is recorded normally, but the damage does not take effect until the 
spell ends (at which point the priest will almost certainly die). If the system shock roll is 
failed, the character instantly dies and the spell ends. Characters who die in this manner 
cannot be raised, resurrected, or reincarnated. They have been taken to the ultimate 
reward (or punishment) for the service they have rendered. If the bodies are moved from 
their positions, the spell ends.
Even if the deity releases the priests, they are left severely drained. All spells 
memorized are lost until the priest can rest and perform his prayers once again. The 
physical drain leaves each priest with only 1 hit point upon awakening, regardless of the 
number of hit points the character had when the spell was cast. Since damage suffered 
during the spell takes effect instantly, any priest who is hurt dies immediately (although 
quick action by others might save him).
Each priest who survives the spell will be bound by a quest (a duty that must be 
completed in exchange for calling upon their god).
The material component is an offering appropriate to the deity. The DM determines 
the exact nature of this offering. 

 Succor
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Reversible
Sphere: Summoning
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 day
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell, the priest creates a powerful magic aura in some specially
prepared object--a string of prayer beads, a small clay tablet, an ivory baton, etc. This
object radiates magic, for it contains the power to instantaneously transport its possessor
to the sanctuary of the priest who created its magic. Once the item is enchanted, the priest
must give it willingly to an individual, at the same time informing him of a command
word to be spoken when the item is to be used. To make use of the item, the recipient
must speak the command word at the same time that he rends or breaks the item. When
this is done, the individual and all that he is wearing and carrying (up to the maximum
encumbrance limit for the character) are instantly transported to the sanctuary of the
priest, just as if the individual were capable of speaking a word of recall spell. No other
creatures can be affected.
The reversed application of the spell causes the priest to be transported to the
immediate vicinity of the possessor of the item when it is broken and the command word
said. The priest has a general idea of the location and situation of the item's possessor,
and can choose not to be affected by this summons. This decision is made at the instant
when the transportation is to take place. However, if he chooses not to go, the opportunity
is gone forever and the spell is wasted.
The cost of preparing the special item (for either version of the spell) varies from 2,000
to 5,000 gp. The more costly items can transport the subject from one plane of existence
to another, if the DM allows. Note that the same factors that can prevent the operation of
the plane shift and teleport spells can also prevent the use of this spell.

 Sunray
(Evocation, Alteration)
Sphere: Sun
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1+1d4 rds. Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 5-ft. radius (special) Saving Throw: Special
With this spell, the caster can evoke a dazzling beam of light each round in which no
action other than movement is performed. The sunray is like a ray of natural sunlight. All
creatures in the 10-foot-diameter area of effect must roll successful saving throws vs.
spell or be blinded for 1d3 rounds, those using infravision at the time for 2d4 rounds.
Creatures to whom sunlight is harmful or unnatural suffer permanent blindness if the
saving throw is failed, and are blinded for 2d6 rounds if the saving throw is successful.
Those within its area of effect, as well as creatures within 20 feet of its perimeter, lose
any infravision capabilities for 1d4+1 rounds.
Undead caught within the sunray's area of effect receive 8d6 points of damage, one-half
 if a saving throw vs. spell is successful. Those undead 20 feet to either side of the
sunray's area of effect receive 3d6 points of damage, no damage if a save is successful. In
addition, the ray may result in the total destruction of those undead specifically affected
by sunlight, if their saving throws are failed. The ultraviolet light generated by the spell
inflicts damage on fungoid creatures and subterranean fungi just as if they were undead,
but no saving throw is allowed.
The material components are an aster seed and a piece of adventuring feldspar
(sunstone).

 Symbol
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 60 ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
The priest casting this spell inscribes a glowing symbol in the air upon any surface,
according to his desire. Any creature looking at the completed symbol within 60 feet
must roll a successful saving throw vs. spell or suffer the effect. The symbol glows for
one turn for each experience level of the caster. The particular symbol used is selected by
the caster at the time of casting. The caster will not be affected by his own symbol. One
of the following effects is chosen by the caster:

Hopelessness: Creatures seeing it must turn back in dejection or surrender to capture or
attack unless they roll successful saving throws vs. spell. Its effects last for 3d4 turns.

Pain: Creatures affected suffer -4 penalties to their attack rolls and -2 penalties to their
Dexterity ability scores due to wracking pains. The effects last for 2d10 turns.

Persuasion: Creatures seeing the symbol become of the same alignment as and friendly
to the priest who scribed the symbol for 1d20 turns unless a saving throw vs. spell is
successful.

The material components of this spell are mercury and phosphorous (see 8th-level
wizard spell, symbol).

 Tentacle Walls (Enchantment) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 50-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
Tentacle walls enables the caster to enchant a single room whose volume is less than 
or equal to the area of effect. The spell activates 1d4 rounds after any creature other than 
the caster enters the room. The intruder must be larger than a normal rat; that is, it must 
be larger than one-half cubic foot or weigh more than three pounds.
When the spell is activated, six black, leathery tentacles sprout inside the room; the 
tentacles are evenly divided among the room's surfaces (for instance, if the room is a 
cube, one tentacle sprouts from the floor, one sprouts from the ceiling, and one sprouts 
from each of the four walls).
The whip-like tentacles grow to the length of the room and swing wildly. Each round, 
a tentacle has a 30% chance of striking a random creature in the room, inflicting 1d6 
points of damage (save vs. spell for half damage). Each tentacle has AC 0 and 25 hit 
points. When a tentacle is reduced to 0 hit points, it disappears in a puff of black smoke.
If all creatures are killed or withdraw from the room, the surviving tentacles 
withdraw, disappearing into the walls. If the spell is activated again, six tentacles 
reappear; new tentacles are created to replace any destroyed previously. As long as one 
tentacle survives an encounter, the tentacles will continue to be replaced. Only when all 
six tentacles are destroyed is the spell permanently negated.
The material component is the dried tentacle of an octopus. 

 Timelessness (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell totally stops the flow of time for a single individual. All signs of life stop 
and the subject is incapable of any movement or thought. While the spell is in effect, the 
subject is totally immovable and cannot be affected by any physical or magical forces. 
Weapons simply bounce off the subject as they would bounce off the hardest stone. 
Spells, including dispel magic, are totally incapable of affecting the subject in any way. 
The subject does not age.
Aside from the fact that the subject remains visible, frozen in place like a statue, he is 
effectively no longer part of the universe. (DMs may rule that the most powerful of 
magics, such as wishes, and creatures of demigod or higher status can affect the subject.)
When the priest casts the spell, he or she states the duration for which the spell will 
remain in effect (the maximum is one full day per level of the caster). Once the spell is 
cast, this duration cannot be changed; the priest cannot terminate the spell before the 
stated time has elapsed.
If the subject is unwilling to be affected by the spell, the priest must touch the victim 
for the spell to take effect; the subject receives a normal saving throw to resist the effects. 
A willing subject need not make a saving throw.
The priest may cast this spell on himself if desired. This spell can provide a powerful 
defensive maneuver; while the spell is in effect, the subject is totally invulnerable. 
Timelessness is also an effective form of long-term imprisonment, as long as the priest is 
around to cast the spell again at the appropriate time.
This is an exceptionally powerful spell. Casting it puts a significant strain on the 
priest. Each time he casts timelessness, the priest must make a system shock roll. If the 
priest fails this throw, he or she permanently loses 1 point of Constitution.
The material components are a gem worth at least 1,000 gp and a small cylinder of 
obsidian. Both are crushed during the casting. 

 Tree Spirit (Necromancy)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 tree
Saving Throw: None
Tree spirit permanently links the soul of the caster with a tree, usually chosen 
carefully for its health, vigor, and remote environment. Casting this spell joins the life 
force of the druid with that of the tree; as long as the tree lives, the caster ages at one tenth
 the normal rate. (Because the spell causes the tree to devote all its energy to 
maintaining health rather than growth, it always remains exactly the size it was at the 
time of casting.) Moreover, the caster's spirit merges with the tree at the character's death. 
No form of reincarnation or resurrection (except a wish) on the character's body will 
work unless it lies within 10 feet of the tree.
One year after the caster dies, the druid's spirit animates the tree as a treant. (DMs 
should roll up treant statistics for the tree at the time the spell is cast, to determine the 
tree's Armor Class, Hit Dice, etc.) The chosen tree must be of treant height; the exact size 
determines the size of the new treant, which possesses the caster's memories and 
personality but has no granted powers or spellcasting ability. It must communicate as a 
treant. 
The DM decides whether to consider this treant an NPC or allow the player to 
control it. (DMs should use the guidelines that apply to PCs who become lycanthropes or 
undead.)
However, when a druid uses tree spirit to link with a tree, the character suffers any 
physical damage inflicted on the tree. For instance, if someone hacks at the tree with an 
axe and causes 4 points of damage, the caster also loses 4 hit points; the druid knows the 
tree has been harmed, but does not know the nature of the injury. 
If the tree dies but does not sustain enough damage to kill the caster, the character 
feels stunned for 1d6 rounds and must make a successful system shock roll to avoid 
death. Spells that heal the druid do not affect the tree.
Damage to the caster does not affect the tree, as the extra energy the tree expends on 
strength and health makes any damage the player sustains negligible to the tree. 
However, it's usually in the druid's best interest to have an animal friend or two guard the 
tree. 
In addition, the druid should choose the tree carefully; if the surrounding land is 
cleared for construction work or lumber before the druid's prolonged life span finally 
ends, the character is in trouble.
Casting tree spirit first requires a full month's preparation. The druid lives near the 
tree during this time of prayer and mediation. Then the character conducts a private 
bonding ceremony at the height of a solstice. This spell often is cast by ancient druids, 
who wish to preserve their wisdom or make sure their groves remain defended even after 
their death.

 Transmute Metal to Wood
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 metal object Saving Throw: Special
The transmute metal to wood spell enables the caster to change an object from metal to
wood. The volume of metal cannot exceed a maximum weight of 10 pounds per
experience level of the priest. Magical objects made of metal are 90% resistant to the
spell, and those on the person of a creature receive the creature's saving throw as well.
Artifacts and relics cannot be transmuted. Note that only a wish spell or similar magic can
restore a transmuted object to its metallic state. Otherwise, for example, a metal door
changed to wood would be forevermore a wooden door.

 Wind Walk
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Caster + 1 person/8 levels Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the priest (and possibly one or two other persons) to alter the
substance of his body to a cloudlike vapor. A magical wind then wafts the priest along at
a movement rate of 60, or as slow as 6, as the spellcaster wills. The wind walk spell lasts
as long as the priest desires, up to a maximum duration of six turns (one hour) per
experience level of the caster. For every eight levels of experience the priest has attained,
up to 24, he is able to touch another person and carry that person, or those persons, along
on the wind walk. Persons wind walking are not invisible, but rather appear misty and
translucent. If fully clothed in white, they are 80% likely to be mistaken for clouds, fog,
vapors, etc. The priest can regain his physical form as desired, each change to and from
vaporous form requiring five rounds. While in vaporous form, the priest and companions
are hit only by magic or magical weaponry, though they may be subject to high winds at
the DM's discretion. No spellcasting is possible in vaporous form.
The material components of this spell are fire and holy water.

 Uncontrolled Weather (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 4d4 square miles
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the caster to summon weather that is either appropriate or 
inappropriate to the climate and season of the region. The summoned effects are always 
dramatic--cool breezes or light fog will not appear. Instead, torrential floods will assault a 
desert, a heat wave will rage in polar wastelands, and tornadoes and hurricanes will rip 
across gentle landscapes. A blizzard might spring up in summer or a tornado might 
materialize in the winter.
The spellcaster has no influence over the weather pattern that emerges. He cannot 
control the area of effect or the duration of the weather.
Four turns after the spell is cast, the trend of the weather will become apparent--a 
sudden chill, gust of wind, overcast sky, etc. The uncontrolled weather arrives on the fifth 
turn. Once the weather has arrived, it cannot be dispelled. If the spell is canceled by the 
caster before the beginning of the fifth turn, the weather slowly reverts to its original 
condition.
The effects of the spell are the decision of the DM. The effects should be grand and 
impressive. Following are suggested effects of the weather.
Torrential Rain/Blizzard: Visibility is reduced to 100 yards or less; travel is nearly 
impossible due to water or heavy snow on the ground.
Storm/Hurricanes: All flying creatures are driven from the skies; trees are uprooted; 
roofs are torn off; ships are endangered.
Heat Wave: Intense heat immediately causes ice bridges to melt; avalanches of snow 
and ice roll down mountains.
The DM determines the area of effect randomly. The maximum duration of the spell 
is one turn per level of the caster; however, the DM may cancel the effect after a shorter 
time. 

 Unwilling Wood (Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 5 yards/level of caster
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10-yard radius
Saving Throw: Special
A caster can transform one or more living creatures within a 10-yard radius into 
unwilling wood, causing them to sprout roots, branches, and leaves. The victims become 
trees of a type native to the region and of the characters' age before the transformation. 
The spell works only if cast on beings occupying ground that could support a tree; 
recipients flying or suspended in water at the time of casting remain unaffected.
This spell can mutate a number of creatures equal in total Hit Dice (or levels) to the 
caster's level within the area of effect, of course. If this area holds a group of creatures 
with Hit Dice (or levels) totaling a number greater than the caster's experience level, the 
character may decide the order in which the creatures become affected.
For instance, say a 14th-level druid casts unwilling wood into a target area 
containing a giant with 12 Hit Dice and two 3rd-level warriors. The druid can transform 
either the giant or two warriors, but not all three. "Leftover" Hit Dice or levels are lost.
Each creature affected may attempt to save vs. polymorph. The spell mutates all 
those failing their saving throw, along with any items they carry. A new tree has a height 
of 5 feet per level (or Hit Die) of the victim. The effect is permanent; a person 
transformed into a tree ages as a tree and dies as a tree. However, affected characters 
retain awareness, memories, personality, and intelligence. Only damage severe enough to 
kill the tree can kill an unwilling wood victim.
Tree-characters can return to normal if a spellcaster of greater level than the original 
caster uses remove curse. The original caster can release a transformed entity at will.
The material components are a bit of tree root and the priest's holy symbol.