Spells work file Tier 1

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

First-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 1 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Affect Normal Fires
(Alteration)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to cause nonmagical fires--from as small as a torch or
lantern to as large as the area of effect--to reduce in size and brightness to become mere
coals or increase in light to become as bright as full daylight and increase the illumination
to double the normal radius. Note that this does not affect either fuel consumption or
damage caused by the fire. The caster can affect any or all fires in the spell's area. He can
alter their intensities with a single gesture as long as the spell is in effect. The spell lasts
until the caster cancels it, all fuel is burned, or the duration expires. The caster can also
extinguish all flames in the area, which expends the spell immediately. The spell does not
affect fire elementals or similar creatures.

 Alarm
(Abjuration, Evocation)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 hrs. + _ hr./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Up to 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
When an alarm spell is cast, the wizard causes a selected area to react to the presence
of any creature larger than a normal rat--anything larger than about _ cubic foot in
volume or more than about three pounds in weight. The area of effect can be a portal, a
section of floor, stairs, etc. As soon as any creature enters the warded area, touches it, or
otherwise contacts it without speaking a password established by the caster, the alarm
spell lets out a loud ringing that can be heard clearly within a 60-foot radius. (Reduce the
radius by 10 feet for each interposing door and by 20 feet for each substantial interposing
wall.) The sound lasts for one round and then ceases. Ethereal or astrally projected
creatures do not trigger an alarm, but flying or levitating creatures, invisible creatures, or
incorporeal or gaseous creatures do. The caster can dismiss the alarm with a single word.

 Alter Instrument 
(Alteration) 
Level: 1
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 instrument
Saving Throw: None
By using this spell, the caster can transform one musical instrument into another of 
similar size and equal value. Any hand-held instrument can be altered into any other 
hand-held instrument. However, in order to obtain a large instrument, such as a base harp, 
organ, or any other instrument that is too large or heavy to be easily carried, the 
spellcaster must start with an equally large instrument.
In any event, the value of the new instrument is identical to the original. A golden 
recorder will generate a silver plated lute, a child's drum will generate a nonfunctional 
lyre, etc.
Bards use this spell to save both money and equipment carried. It is a lot cheaper to 
buy a single instrument and alter it when another is needed than to buy every instrument 
that might be required. This also saves a lot of space in one's backpack.
If the instrument the bard wishes to alter is being carried or played by another 
character, a successful attack roll against the opponent's Armor Class must be made in 
order to touch the instrument.

 Armor
(Conjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard creates a magical field of force that serves as if it
were scale mail armor (AC 6). The spell has no effect on a person already armored or a
creature with Armor Class 6 or better. It is not cumulative with the shield spell, but it is
cumulative with Dexterity and, in case of fighter/mages, with the shield bonus. The
armor spell does not hinder movement or prevent spellcasting, and adds no weight or
encumbrance. It lasts until successfully dispelled or until the wearer sustains cumulative
damage totaling greater than 8 points + 1 per level of the caster. (It is important to note
that the armor does not absorb this damage. The armor merely grants an AC of 6; the
wearer still suffers full damage from any successful attacks.) Thus, the wearer might
suffer 8 points from an attack, then several minutes later sustain an additional 1 point of
damage. Unless the spell were cast by a wizard of 2nd level or higher, it would be
dispelled at this time. Until it is dispelled, the armor spell grants the wearer full benefits
of the Armor Class gained.
The material component is a piece of finely cured leather that has been blessed by a
priest.

 Astral Celerity
(Alteration)
Sphere: Astral
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell enhances the caster’s movement capabilities in extraplanar settings by 
attuning him to his new surroundings. While very few 1st-level priests find themselves in 
this situation, higher level characters often make use of this spell. Astral celerity doubles 
the character’s movement rate on the Astral Plane; normally, characters move at a rate of 
30 times their Intelligence score in feet per round, but this spell increases this to 60 feet 
times their Intelligence score. As an incidental benefit, the caster also attunes himself to 
the plane much faster and suffers no penalties for missile fire while astral.
While astral celerity is most often used in the astral plane, it also offers a small 
benefit to ethereal characters, too: their movement rates are increased by 50%, so a 
character with a movement rate of 12 would enjoy a movement rate of 18 while this spell 
was in effect. Of course, time and distance have little meaning in the overall scheme of 
the Astral or Ethereal Planes, but relative speed could be very important in avoiding an 
unpleasant encounter or escaping from pursuit of some kind.


 Audible Glamer
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Hearing range Saving Throw: Special
When the audible glamer spell is cast, the wizard causes a volume of sound to arise, at
whatever distance he desires (within range), and seem to recede, approach, or remain at a
fixed place as desired. The volume of sound created, however, is directly related to the
level of the spellcaster. The volume is based upon the lowest level at which the spell can
be cast, 1st level. The noise of the audible glamer at this level is that of four men,
maximum. Each additional experience level of the wizard adds a like volume, so that at
2nd level the wizard can have the spell cause sound equal to that of eight men. Thus,
talking, singing, shouting, walking, marching, or running sounds can be created. The
auditory illusion created by an audible glamer spell can be virtually any type of sound,
but the relative volume must be commensurate with the level of the wizard casting the
spell. A horde of rats running and squeaking is about the same volume as eight men
running and shouting. A roaring lion is equal to the noise volume of 16 men, while a
roaring dragon is equal to the noise volume of no fewer than 24 men.

 Battlefate
(Alteration)
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell alters probability to favor one character or creature locked in battle. His 
opponent may stumble at an awkward time, a clumsy parry might catch the enemy’s 
weapon at just the right angle, or he happens to notice the foe moving in for a flank 
attack. The more powerful the priest, the more potent the aid; combat modifiers provided 
by battlefate equal +1 per three levels, so a 1st-level caster provides a +1 bonus, a 
4th-level caster a +2 bonus, a 7th-level caster a +3, and so on to a maximum of +5 for a 
13th-level priest. The exact form of the aid or assistance varies from round to round—roll 
a d6 to see which aspect of the subject’s combat abilities are affected in any given round.

d6 | Effect
1  |  Nothing happens
2  | Defenses enhanced, apply bonus to subject AC
3  | Luck enhanced, apply bonus to saving throws
4  | Accuracy enhanced, apply bonus to attack rolls
5  | Damage enhanced, apply bonus to damage rolls
6  | Lucky opening! Subject gains one extra attack with either enhanced accuracy or 
damage (subject’s choice)

If the character does not make a roll of the specified type in the round, he gains no 
benefit for the spell; for example, if the character gains the saving throw bonus but 
doesn’t have to make any saving throws during the round in question, battlefate doesn’t 
help him. Of course, in the following round, the spell may provide him with a different 
benefit. Note that on a roll of 1, battlefate does not help the character that the priest intends 
to aid—such is the nature of chaos.
The material component for this spell is an electrum coin tossed by the priest as 
he casts the spell.

 Blessed Watchfulness
(Alteration)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 4 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By casting this spell, the priest confers exceptional powers of observation and 
alertness to one creature for the duration of the spell. While blessed watchfulness is in 
effect, the designated sentinel remains alert, awake and vigilant for the duration of the 
spell. In fact, it takes a roll of 1 to surprise someone under this effect. He resists sleep 
spells and similar magic as if he were 4 levels or Hit Dice higher than his actual level and 
gains a +2 bonus to saving throws against other spells or effects that could lower his 
guard or force him to abandon his watch, including charm, beguiling, fear, emotion, and 
similar mind-affecting spells. If the effect normally allows no saving throw, the watcher 
gains no special benefit.

 Burning Hands
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: _
When the wizard casts this spell, a jet of searing flame shoots from his fingertips. His
hands must be held so as to send forth a fanlike sheet of flames: The wizard's thumbs
must touch each other and the fingers must be spread. The burning hands send out flame
jets 5 feet long in a horizontal arc of about 120 degrees in front of the wizard. Any
creature in the area of the flames suffers 1d3 points of damage, plus 2 points for each
level of experience of the spellcaster, to a maximum of 1d3+20 points of fire damage.
Those successfully saving vs. spell receive half damage. Flammable materials touched by
the fire burn (for example, cloth, paper, parchment, thin wood, etc.). Such materials can
be extinguished in the next round if no other action is taken.

 Calculate
(Divination)
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0 Components: S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By means of this spell, the priest can accurately estimate the chance of success of 
one specific action, such as climbing a dangerous cliff, making a trick bowshot, crossing 
a burning room unharmed, or even striking an enemy. The action in question must be one 
that would normally be resolved by a die roll, but the priest doesn’t have to be the person 
who attempts the feat; he can use calculate to estimate the odds for anyone taking an 
action in his sight. The priest has a 70% chance, +2% per level, of making an accurate 
estimate.
If successful, the DM reveals to the player the action’s chance for success or any 
modifiers that may be in play. For example, he could reveal a particular opponent’s 
Armor Class or THAC0, the saving throw an opponent would require in order to save 
against a particular spell cast by the priest or the priest’s wizard companion, or a 
character’s chance to open doors, bend bars, or use a thief ability. The priest could even 
calculate his odds for actions that might be resolved by a die roll or DM caprice, such as 
his chance to avoid detection by hiding behind a rock. This spell takes into account 
factors that the priest himself may not be aware of, so from time to time a character may 
receive some very confusing results from this spell. For instance, if the priest doesn’t 
know that an orc chieftain is actually a polymorphed tanar’ri masquerading as an orc, he 
may be astonished to learn that the “orc” has a THAC0 of 7!
If the priest fails his calculation check with a roll of 99 or 00, his calculation is 
wildly skewed in a random fashion. The material component for this spell is a miniature 
abacus of ivory worth at least 100 gp. It is not consumed in the casting of the spell.

 Calm Animals
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate audio Critical: None
This spell soothes and quiets normal animals, which renders them docile and 
harmless. Only creatures with Intelligence ratings of 1 to 4 (in other words, animal- or 
semi-intelligent creatures) can be affected by this spell. The caster can calm 2d4 Hit Dice
of animals, plus 1 Hit Die per level, so a 4th-level priest could affect 2d4+4 Hit Dice of 
creatures. The caster can affect any animals he wishes to within the spell’s range, but all 
the subjects must be of the same species. The subject creatures are not allowed a saving 
throw unless they have magical powers, abilities, or are clearly not entirely natural; a 
priest could calm a normal bear, war dog, or wolf with little trouble, but it’s more 
difficult to affect a winter wolf, hell hound, or owlbear.
While under the influence of this spell, the affected creatures remain where they 
are and do not attack or flee, unless they are attacked or confronted by a significant 
hazard such as a fire or a hungry predator. Once roused, the spell’s magic is broken and 
the animals are free to act in whatever fashion they normally would. Note that creatures 
affected by this spell are not helpless and defend themselves normally if attacked.

 Cantrip
(All Schools)
Range: 10 ft. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Cantrips are minor spells studied by wizards during their apprenticeship, regardless of
school. The cantrip spell is a practice method for the apprentice, teaching him how to tap
minute amounts of magical energy. Once cast, the cantrip spell enables the caster to
create minor magical effects for the duration of the spell. However, these effects are so
minor that they have severe limitations. They are completely unable to cause a loss of hit
points, cannot affect the concentration of spellcasters, and can only create small,
obviously magical materials. Furthermore, materials created by a cantrip are extremely
fragile and cannot be used as tools of any sort. Lastly, a cantrip lacks the power to
duplicate any other spell effects.
Whatever manifestation the cantrip takes, it remains in effect only as long as the
wizard concentrates. Wizards typically use cantrips to impress common folk, amuse
children, and brighten dreary lives. Common tricks with cantrips include tinklings of
ethereal music, brightening faded flowers, glowing balls that float over the caster's hand,
puffs of wind to flicker candles, spicing up aromas and flavors of bland food, and little
whirlwinds to sweep dust under rugs. Combined with the unseen servant spell, it's a tool
to make housekeeping and entertaining simpler for the wizard.

 Change Self
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 2d6 rds. + 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to alter the appearance of his form--including clothing
and equipment--to appear 1 foot shorter or taller; thin, fat, or in between; human,
humanoid, or any other generally man-shaped bipedal creature. The caster cannot
duplicate a specific individual. The spell does not provide the abilities or mannerisms of
the chosen form. The duration of the spell is 2d6 rounds plus two additional rounds per
level of experience of the spellcaster. The DM may allow a saving throw for disbelief
under certain circumstances: for example, if the caster acts in a manner obviously
inconsistent with his chosen role. The spell does not alter the perceived tactile (i.e.,
touch) properties of the caster or his equipment, and the ruse can be discovered in this
way.

 Charm Person
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell affects any single person it is cast upon. The term person includes any
bipedal human, demihuman or humanoid of man-size or smaller, such as brownies,
dryads, dwarves, elves, gnolls, gnomes, goblins, half-elves, halflings, half-orcs,
hobgoblins, humans, kobolds, lizard men, nixies, orcs, pixies, sprites, troglodytes, and
others. Thus, a 10th-level fighter could be charmed, but an ogre could not.
The person receives a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect, with any adjustment
due to Wisdom (see Table 5). If the person receives damage from the caster's group in the
same round the charm is cast, an additional bonus of +1 per hit point of damage received
is added to the victim's saving throw.
If the spell recipient fails his saving throw, he regards the caster as a trusted friend and
ally to be heeded and protected. The spell does not enable the caster to control the
charmed creature as if it were an automaton, but any word or action of the caster is
viewed in the most favorable way. Thus, a charmed person would not obey a suicide
command, but he might believe the caster if assured that the only chance to save the
caster's life is for the person to hold back an onrushing red dragon for "just a minute or
two." Note also that the spell does not endow the caster with linguistic capabilities
beyond those he normally possesses (i.e., he must speak the victim's language to
communicate his commands).
The duration of the spell is a function of the charmed person's Intelligence and is tied
to the saving throw. The spell may be broken if a successful saving throw is rolled, and
this saving throw is checked on a periodic basis, according to the creature's Intelligence
(see the following table). If the caster harms, or attempts to harm, the charmed person by
some overt action, or if a dispel magic spell is successfully cast upon the charmed person,
the charm spell is broken.
If two or more charm effects simultaneously affect a creature, the result is decided by
the DM. This could range from one effect being clearly dominant, to the subject being
torn by conflicting desires, to new saving throws that could negate both spells.
Note that the subject has full memory of the events that took place while he was
charmed.

Intelligence Score \Time Between Checks
3 or less\ 3 months
4-6 \2 months
7-9 \1 month
10-12 \3 weeks
13-14 \2 weeks
15-16 \1 week
17 \3 days
18 \2 days
19 or more \1 day

Note: The period between checks is the time period during which the check occurs.
When to roll the check during this time is determined (randomly or by selection) by the
DM. The roll is made secretly.

 Chill Touch
(Necromancy)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: Neg.
When the caster completes this spell, a blue glow encompasses his hand. This energy
attacks the life force of any living creature upon which the wizard makes a successful
melee attack. The touched creature must roll a successful saving throw vs. spell or suffer
1d4 points of damage and lose 1 point of Strength. If the save is successful, the creature
remains unharmed. Creatures not rated for Strength suffer a -1 penalty to their attack rolls
for every other successful touch. Lost Strength returns at the rate of 1 point per hour.
Damage must be cured magically or healed naturally.
This spell has a special effect on undead creatures. Undead touched by the caster suffer
no damage or Strength loss, but they must successfully save vs. spell or flee for 1d4
rounds + 1 round per level of the caster.

 Conjure Spell Component (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 1 mile/level
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 3 components/level
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard teleports desired items directly to his hand. The 
objects must be naturally occurring components for spells the wizard knows and they 
must be within spell range. The components must be items commonly found in the area, 
such as a twig, feather, firefly, or bit of beeswax in a forest.
If the components lie underground or underwater at a depth greater than 10 feet, they 
cannot be conjured, even if the caster is at a similar depth (such as in a cavern or at the 
bottom of a lake).
The spell will not cause the appearance of components whose value exceeds 1 gp. 
Thus, it is impossible to summon gemstones, crystals, metals, pearls, etc. Additionally, 
components cannot be manmade or altered from their natural state (coins, jewelry, cut or 
crushed gems, mirrors, etc.), nor can they be taken from someone else's possession.
A single conjure spell component spell will summon three components per level of 
the caster. They may be three different components or multiples of a single component.
Attempts to conjure an animal's body parts (such as bat fur) produce unpredictable 
results. The DM should roll on the table below. 
D4 Roll | Result 
 1      | Desired component appears. 
 2      | Component does not appear. 
 3      | Creature is teleported to the caster. 
 4      | Caster is teleported to the creature. 

Only animals with Intelligence scores of 1-4 can be affected by this spell. Humanoids 
and fantastic animals (dragons, bugbears, unicorns, etc.) cannot be affected.
In all cases, the DM must use common sense to determine the likelihood of the 
component being located within spell range. 

 Copy (Evocation) 
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One object
Saving Throw: Special
Copy enables the caster to make a perfect copy of a map, letter, or any other written or 
drawn document. The caster must have a blank parchment or a book with blank pages of 
sufficient size to hold the copy. The caster holds the blank object over the object to be 
copied, then casts the spell; the copy immediately appears on the formerly blank object. 
The copy is permanent and is a perfect duplicate of the original. 
Copy can also be used to copy spells from a new spell book into the caster's spell 
book, assuming the caster's spell book is of sufficient size to contain the new spells. The 
caster must first roll to see if he can learn the new spells; if so, he can cast copy to 
instantly copy them into his spell book. 
The material components for this spell are a piece of blank parchment (or a book with 
blank pages, as described above), and a drop of black ink

 Chromatic Orb (Alteration, Evocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell causes a 4-inch-diameter sphere to appear in the caster's hand. Within the 
limits described below, the sphere can appear in a variety of colors; each color indicates a 
different special power. The caster can hurl the sphere at an opponent up to 30 yards 
away, providing there are no barriers between the caster and the target. If the target is no 
more than 10 yards away, the caster's to hit roll is made with a +3 bonus. If the target is 
10-20 yards away, the caster's roll is made with a +2 bonus. If the target is 20-30 yards 
away, the caster's roll is made with a +1 bonus. 
If the chromatic orb misses its target, it dissipates without effect. If the target creature 
makes a successful saving throw, the chromatic orb is also ineffective. Otherwise, the 
color of the orb determines the amount of damage inflicted and its special power, as 
summarized on Table 16; details about the special powers are listed below. The caster 
can create a single orb of any color listed for his level or lower; for instance, a 3rd-level 
wizard can create an orange, red, or white orb. The material component for this spell 
is a gem of the appropriate hue or any diamond. The gem must have a value of at least 50 
gp. 
Light from the orb causes the victim to become surrounded by light to a radius of 20 
feet, as if affected by a light spell. The effect lasts for 1 round, during which time the 
victim makes his attack rolls and saving throws at a -4 penalty, and his AC is penalized 
by 4. 
Heat from the orb is intense enough to melt 1 cubic yard of ice. The victim suffers a 
loss of 1 point of Strength and 1 point of Dexterity (or for victims without these 
attributes, -1 to hit and a penalty of 1 to AC) for 1 round. 
Fire from the orb ignites all combustible materials within 3 feet of the victim. 
Blindness from the orb causes the victim to become blind as per the spell. The effect 
lasts for 1 round/level of the caster. 
Stinking cloud from the orb surrounds the victim in a 5-foot-radius noxious cloud. The 
victim must save vs. poison or will be reeling and unable to attack until he leaves the area 
of the vapors. Magnetism from the orb has an effect only if the victim is wearing armor 
made from iron. The iron armor becomes magically magnetized for 3-12 (3d4) rounds. 
Other iron objects within 3 feet of the caster will stick tight to the magnetized armor; only 
dispel magic or a similar spell can release the stuck items. At the end of the spell's 
duration, the stuck items are released. 
Paralysis from the orb causes the victim to become paralyzed for 6-20 (2d8 + 4) 
rounds; a successful saving throw vs. paralyzation halves the number of rounds. 
Petrification from the orb turns the victim to stone. If the victim successfully saves vs. 
petrification, he avoids turning to stone and instead is slowed (as per the spell) for 2-8 
(2d4) rounds. Death from the orb causes the victim to die. If the victim successfully 
saves. vs death magic, he avoids death and instead is paralyzed for 2-5 (1d4 +1) rounds.

                     Table 16: Chromatic Orb Effects
Level of Caster | Color of Orb Generated | Hit Points of Damage | Special  Power
  1st           |        White           |       1-4            | Light
  2nd           |        Red             |       1-6            | Heat
  3rd           |        Orange          |       1-8            | Fire
  4th           |        Yellow          |       1-10           | Blindness
  5th           |        Green           |       1-12           | Stinking Cloud
  6th           |        Turquoise       |       2-8            | Magnetism
  7th           |        Blue            |       2-16           | Paralysis
  8th           |        Violet          |       slow           | Petrification
  9th           |        Black           |       paralysis      | Death

 Corpse Visage (Illusion, Necromancy) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: Neg
This spell transforms the caster's face or the face of any creature touched by the caster 
into the horrifying visage of a rotting corpse. The effect of this illusion is so startling that 
when it is viewed by opponents, the wizard's party adds a modifier of +2 to their surprise 
roll. Creatures with low Intelligence or higher (Intelligence of 5 or greater) and with 1 Hit 
Die or less (or who are 1st level or lower) must make a successful saving throw when 
first viewing corpse visage or flee in terror for 1-4 rounds. 
Corpse visage does not distinguish between friend and foe, and all who view it are 
subject to its effects. If the spell is cast upon an unwilling victim, the victim is allowed a 
saving throw to avoid the effect. 
The material component is a rag or piece of cloth taken from a corpse. The cloth must 
be prepared by dotting it with paints of assorted colors. 


 Color Spray
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 5 x 20 x Saving Throw: Special
20 ft. wedge
Upon casting this spell, the wizard causes a vivid, fan-shaped spray of clashing colors
to spring forth from his hand. From one to six creatures (1d6) within the area are affected
in order of increasing distance from the wizard. All creatures above the level of the
spellcaster and all those of 6th level or 6 Hit Dice or more are entitled to a saving throw
vs. spell. Blind or unseeing creatures are not affected by the spell.
Creatures not allowed or failing saving throws, and whose Hit Dice or levels are less
than or equal to the spellcaster's level, are struck unconscious for 2d4 rounds; those with
Hit Dice or levels 1 or 2 greater than the wizard's level are blinded for 1d4 rounds; those
with Hit Dice or levels 3 or more greater than that of the spellcaster are stunned (reeling
and unable to think or act coherently) for one round.
The material components of this spell are a pinch each of powder or sand that is
colored red, yellow, and blue.

 Comprehend Languages
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 speaking Saving Throw: None
creature or written text
When this spell is cast, the wizard is able to understand the spoken words of a creature
or read an otherwise incomprehensible written message (such as writing in another
language). In either case, the wizard must touch the creature or the writing. Note that the
ability to read does not necessarily impart understanding of the material, nor does the
spell enable the caster to speak or write an unknown language. Written material can be
read at the rate of one page or equivalent per round. Magical writing cannot be read, other
than to know it is magical, but the spell is often useful when deciphering treasure maps.
This spell can be foiled by certain warding magic (the 3rd-level secret page and
illusionary script spells), and it does not reveal messages concealed in otherwise normal
text.
The material components of this spell are a pinch of soot and a few grains of salt.
The reverse of this spell, confuse languages, cancels a comprehend languages spell or
renders a writing or a creature's speech incomprehensible, for the same duration as above.

 Dancing Lights
(Alteration)
Range: 40 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When a dancing lights spell is cast, the wizard creates, at his option, from one to four
lights that resemble either torches or lanterns (and cast that amount of light), glowing
spheres of light (such as evidenced by will-o-wisps), or one faintly glowing, vaguely
manlike shape, somewhat similar to that of a creature from the Elemental Plane of Fire.
The dancing lights move as the spellcaster desires, forward or back, straight or turning
corners, without concentration upon such movement by the wizard. The spell cannot be
used to cause blindness (see the 1st-level light spell), and it winks out if the range or
duration is exceeded.
The material component of this spell is either a bit of phosphorus or wychwood, or a
glowworm.

 Detect Disease (Divination) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object
Saving Throw: None
Detect disease reveals to the wizard whether a subject creature or object carries a 
disease, whether normal or magical. Additionally, there is a 10 percent chance per level 
of the caster that he is able to identify the exact type of disease. 
The material component for this spell is a twig or small branch from any tree


 Detect Magic
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 x 60 ft. Saving Throw: None
When the detect magic spell is cast, the wizard detects magical radiations in a path 10
feet wide and up to 60 feet long, in the direction he is facing. The intensity of the magic
can be determined (dim, faint, moderate, strong, overwhelming), and the wizard has a
10% chance per level to recognize if a certain type of magic (alteration, conjuration, etc.)
is present. The caster can turn, scanning a 60-degree arc per round. A stone wall of 1 foot
or more thickness, solid metal of 1 inch thickness, or a yard or more of solid wood blocks
the spell. Magical areas, multiple types of magic, or strong local magical emanations may
confuse or conceal weaker radiations. Note that this spell does not reveal the presence of
good or evil, or reveal alignment. Otherplanar creatures are not necessarily magical.

 Detect Phase
(Divination, Dimension)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 x 60 ft. Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
Creatures or objects that are phased—that is, in the Border Ehtereal Plane—can 
be detected by using this spell. The spell affects a path 60 feet long and 10 feet wide; any 
phased creatures or objects in this area are revealed as soft, blue-glowing outlines visible 
to anyone in the vicinity. Creatures or effects detected by this spell include: phase 
spiders, ghosts in their ethereal state, characters or creatures employing oil of 
etherealness, psionic etherealness or phasing, and all other similar effects. Doorways or 
portals to extradimensional spaces are also detected, although anything hidden within 
remains unseen.
Detect phase does not reveal the location of creatures or objects concealed by 
magical invisibility or illusions. Note that detecting a phased monster doesn’t necessarily 
give the caster the ability to attack it, but creatures such as phase 
spiders lose any special surprise bonuses they may receive if they are detected by using 
this spell.

 Detect Secret Passages and Portals
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 x 10 ft. area/level Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell enables a wizard to detect secret doors, compartments, caches, and 
similar devices. Only passages, doors, or openings that have been deliberately 
constructed so as to escape detection are detected by this spell—a trap door buried 
beneath crates in a cellar, an illusionary wall, or an amulet left in a cluttered room would 
not be detected. The wizard affects an area of 10 feet square per level, so a 4th-level 
wizard could search four sections of wall, floor, or ceiling. Any doorways or openings 
detected by this spell glow softly for one full turn. It’s possible that a wizard might not 
find a secret compartment in the area of effect if the compartment is behind or under 
another object that covers it completely. This spell only detects the doorway or opening; 
the wizard may have to search for a mechanism or catch that opens the door.


 Detect Undead
(Divination, Necromancy)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 turns Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 60 ft. + 10 ft./level Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to detect all undead creatures out to the limit of the spell.
The area of effect extends in a path 10 feet wide and 60 feet long (plus 10 feet longer per
level of the wizard), in the direction the caster is facing. Scanning a direction requires one
round, and the caster must be motionless. While the spell indicates direction, it does not
give specific location or distance. It detects undead through walls and obstacles but is
blocked by 1 foot of solid stone, 1 yard of wood or loose earth, or a thin coating of metal.
The spell does not indicate the type of undead detected, only that undead are present.
The material component for this spell is a bit of earth from a grave.

 Dictation
(Invocation/Evocation, Geometry)
Range: 10-ft. radius Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small audio Critical: None
This spell causes any words spoken by the wizard or anyone within 10 feet of him 
to appear on a piece of paper or the blank page of a book. It is useful for recording 
conversations, verbal agreements, interrogations, or even notes or observations if the 
wizard doesn’t want to take the time to write them down himself. Generally, a person 
reading aloud takes about one to five minutes to read a page, depending on how many 
words are on a page.
Foreign languages are not translated, although foreign words are given the correct 
alphabetic spelling in the wizard’s native tongue; for example, the phrase c’est la vie 
would appear as it does here, with no English translation, but a phrase or name in Arabic 
or Chinese would not be transcribed in those alphabets. Magical spells and invocations 
are not recorded, so this spell can’t be used to create a backup copy of a scroll even as it’s 
read by the wizard, but a clever wizard may be able to record a magical item’s command 
word if an enemy within range uses it while the spell is in effect.
The material component for this spell is the blank page, scroll, or paper that the 
dictation will appear on. This must be prepared with a special wash of vinegar, which 
brings the cost to 10 gold pieces per page so readied.

 Dispel Fatigue
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell removes physical fatigue or exhaustion from the subject by undoing the 
physiological effects of his exertions. The subject is instantly restored to his normal, fully 
rested level of endurance or vigor. This spell can be used to negate the penalties of forced 
marching, long swims, jogging, running, or sprinting, or even accumulated fatigue points 
from either the Player’s Option: Combat & Tactics rules or the magic fatigue rules in 
Chapter 6. Once this spell has been cast, the subject may start to accumulate fatigue or 
fatigue-based penalties again, depending on how he continues to exert himself. The 
material component is a sprinkle of fresh, blessed springwater.

 Divining Rod (Divination, Enchantment) 
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to enchant the branch of a ginkgo or fruit tree to locate a 
common item that is hidden from view. Unlike locate object, the caster does not need to 
have a specific mental image of a particular item; rather, he only needs to state the name 
of the general type of item he wishes to locate, such as buried treasure, edible plants, or 
fresh water. However, divining rod will not locate invisible or magical items, nor will it 
locate items protected by obscure item or a similar spell. 
Once the branch is enchanted, the caster holds the branch with both hands. If the 
desired item is within the range of the spell, the enchanted branch points in the direction 
of the item and gently pulls the caster along. The spell is not blocked by lead or any other 
substance. However, if an impenetrable obstacle is reached, such as the ground or a wall, 
the branch presses against it and stops. If there is no item matching the description within 
the spell range, the branch does not react, although the caster can move about and 
continue to search. 
The material component for this spell is the branch from a ginkgo tree or a fruit tree, 
such as peach, apple, or lemon. The branch must be shaped like the letter Y, so that the 
caster can grasp a fork of the branch in each hand.

 Enlarge
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell causes instant growth of a creature or object, increasing both size and
weight. It can be cast only upon a single creature (or a symbiotic or community entity) or
upon a single object that does not exceed 10 cubic feet in volume per caster level. The
object or creature must be seen to be affected. It grows by up to 10% per level of
experience of the wizard, increasing this amount in height, width, and weight.
All equipment worn or carried by a creature is enlarged by the spell. Unwilling victims
are entitled to a saving throw vs. spell. A successful saving throw means the spell fails. If
insufficient room is available for the desired growth, the creature or object attains the
maximum possible size, bursting weak enclosures in the process, but it is constrained
without harm by stronger materials--the spell cannot be used to crush a creature by
growth.
Magical properties are not increased by this spell--a huge sword +1 is still only +1, a
staff-sized wand is still only capable of its normal functions, a giant-sized potion merely
requires a greater fluid intake to make its magical effects operate, etc. Weight, mass, and
strength are affected, though. Thus, a table blocking a door would be heavier and more
effective, a hurled stone would have more mass (and cause more damage), chains would
be more massive, doors thicker, a thin line turned to a sizeable, longer rope, and so on. A
creature's hit points, Armor Class, and attack rolls do not change, but damage rolls
increase proportionately with size.
For example, a fighter at 160% normal size hits with his long sword and rolls a 6 for
damage. The adjusted damage roll is 10 (that is, 6 x 1.6 = 9.6, rounded up). Bonuses due
to Strength, class, and magic are not altered.
The reverse spell, reduce, negates the enlarge spell or makes creatures or objects
smaller. The creature or object loses 10% of its original size for every level of the caster,
to a minimum of 10% of the original size. Thereafter, the size shrinks by 1-foot
increments to less than 1 foot, by 1-inch increments to 1 inch, and by 1/10-inch
increments to a minimum of 1/10 of an inch--the recipient cannot dwindle away to
nothingness.
For example, a 16-foot-tall giant reduced by a 15th-level wizard (15 steps) would be
reduced to 1.6 feet (in nine steps), then to 6/10 of a foot or 7.2 inches (in one step), and
finally to 2.2 inches (in the last five steps). A shrinking object may damage weaker
materials affixed to it, but an object will shrink only as long as the object itself is not
damaged. Unwilling creatures are allowed a saving throw vs. spell.
The material component of this spell is a pinch of powdered iron.

 Erase
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 scroll or 2 pages Saving Throw: Special
The erase spell removes writings of either magical or mundane nature from a scroll or
from one to two pages of paper, parchment, or similar surfaces. It removes explosive
runes, glyphs of warding, sepia snake sigils, and wizard marks, but it does not remove
illusory script or symbols (see those spells). Nonmagical writings are automatically
erased if the caster is touching them; otherwise, the chance for success is 90%. Magical
writings must be touched, and are only 30% likely to be erased, plus 5% per caster level,
to a maximum of 90% (for example, 35% for a 1st-level caster, 40% for a 2nd-level
caster, etc.).

 Expeditious Retreat
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
The wizard Kerith was noted for his astounding lack of courage in the face of 
even the most insignificant dangers. He developed this spell early in his career to assist 
him in his frequent and precipitous withdrawals from combat. When cast, expeditious 
retreat provides the wizard with an amazing fleetness of foot, enabling him to run in 
great leaps and bounds. The caster’s movement rate is tripled for the duration of the spell, 
so a wizard with a movement of 12 would be able to run at a rate of 36 while the spell 
was in effect. In addition, the wizard can jump up to 5 feet in the air or make a 15-foot 
horizontal leap with ease. The wizard does not have to move while the spell is in effect, 
but if he moves at all, his unnatural speed and bounds prevent him from taking any other 
actions except for running—in other words, he can’t take a half-move and throw a 
missile, or charge, cast a spell, or do anything else except move.
The wizard cannot increase his movement further by any means, including 
additional movement-affecting magical spells or items. Kerith was also noted for his 
cynical observation to a companion: “I don’t have to outrun the troll. I just have to outrun 
you.”

 Feather Fall
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the creature(s) or object(s) affected immediately assumes the
mass of a piece of down. The rate of falling is instantly changed to a mere 2 feet per
second (120 feet per round), and no damage is incurred upon landing while the spell is in
effect. However, when the spell duration ceases, a normal rate of fall occurs. The spell
can be cast upon the wizard or some other creature or object up to the maximum range
and lasts for one round for each level of the wizard. The feather fall affects one or more
objects or creatures in a 10-foot cube, as long as the maximum weight of the creatures or
objects does not exceed a combined total of 200 pounds plus 200 pounds per level of the
spellcaster.
For example, a 2nd-level wizard has a range of 20 yards, a duration of two rounds, and
a weight limit of 600 pounds when casting this spell. The spell works only upon freefalling,
 flying, or propelled objects (such as missiles). It does not affect a sword blow or a
charging creature. Note that the spell can be effectively combined with gust of wind and
similar spells.

 Find Familiar
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 1 mile/level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2d12 hours
Area of Effect: 1 familiar Saving Throw: Special
This spell enables the caster to attempt to summon a familiar to act as his aide and
companion. Familiars are typically small creatures, such as cats, frogs, ferrets, crows,
hawks, snakes, owls, ravens, toads, weasels, or even mice. A creature acting as a familiar
can benefit a wizard, conveying its sensory powers to its master, conversing with him,
and serving as a guard/scout/spy as well. A wizard can have only one familiar at a time,
however, and he has no control over what sort of creature answers the summoning, if any
at all come.
The creature is always more intelligent than others of its type (typically by 2 or 3
Intelligence points), and its bond with the wizard confers upon it an exceptionally long
life. The wizard receives the heightened senses of his familiar, which grants the wizard a
+1 bonus to all surprise die rolls. Normal familiars have 2-4 hit points plus 1 hit point per
caster level, and an Armor Class of 7 (due to size, speed, etc.).
The wizard has an empathic link with the familiar and can issue it mental commands at
a distance of up to 1 mile. Note that empathic responses from the familiar are generally
fairly basic--while able to communicate simple thoughts, these are often overwhelmed by
instinctual responses. Thus, a ferret familiar spying on a band of orcs in the woods might
lose its train of thought upon sighting a mouse. Certainly its communications to its master
would be tinged with fear of the "big ones" it was spying on! The caster cannot see
through the familiar's eyes.
If separated from the caster, the familiar loses 1 hit point each day, and dies if reduced
to 0 hit points. When the familiar is in physical contact with its wizard, it gains the
wizard's saving throws against special attacks. If a special attack would normally cause
damage, the familiar suffers no damage if the saving throw is successful and half damage
if the saving throw is failed. If the familiar dies, the wizard must successfully roll an
immediate system shock check or die. Even if he survives this check, the wizard loses 1
point from his Constitution when the familiar dies.
The power of the conjuration is such that it can be attempted but once per year. When
the wizard decides to find a familiar, he must load a brass brazier with charcoal. When
this is burning well, he adds 1,000 gp worth of incense and herbs. The spell incantation is
then begun and must be continued until the familiar comes or the casting time is finished.
The DM secretly determines all results. Note that most familiars are not inherently
magical, nor does a dispel magic spell send them away.
Deliberate mistreatment, failure to feed and care for the familiar, or continuous
unreasonable demands have adverse effects on the familiar's relationship with its master.
Purposely arranging the death of one's own familiar incurs great disfavor from certain
powerful entities, with dire results.

D20 Roll Familiar* Sensory Powers
 1-5 Cat, black Excellent night vision & superior hearing
 6-7 Crow Excellent vision
 8-9 Hawk Very superior distance vision
10-11 Owl Night vision equals human daylight vision, superior hearing
12-13 Toad Wide-angle vision
14-15 Weasel Superior hearing & very superior olfactory power
16-20 No familiar available within spell range
* The DM can substitute other small animals suitable to the area.

 Fire Burst (Alteration, Evocation) 
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One 10'-radius circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast upon a nonmagical fire (such as a campfire, lantern, or candle), 
it causes the fire to flash and shoot arrows of flame. All creatures within 10 feet of the 
fire source suffer 1 point of damage per level of the caster (maximum of 10 points). 
Victims who roll a saving throw successfully suffer no damage. 

 Firelight
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental Fire
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 hrs. + 1 hr./2 levels Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Large visual Critical: None
This variant of the spell log of everburning changes one small fire no larger than a 
campfire into firelight. The flame ceases to produce smoke and becomes much cooler; 
within 1 turn of the spell’s casting, the fire cools enough to be handled or touched 
barehanded without causing harm. The firelight is resistant to gusts of wind or poor 
burning conditions (pouring rain, lack of air, and so on), but complete immersion in 
water, vacuum, or magical darkness extinguishes the flame immediately. Firelight burns 
brighter and steadier than a normal flame, and a torch enchanted with this spell sheds 
light in a 30-foot radius instead of the normal 15-foot radius. The fuel source lasts 
throughout the duration of the spell. Unlike log of everburning, this spell is not at all 
useful for staying warm since firelight produces very little heat.
Firelight inflicts 1d2 points of damage per caster level if cast on creatures of 
living or elemental fire, but has no other effect on these monsters. The material 
component is a mix of resins and incense, thrown into the flame to be affected.

 Fist of Stone (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster's hand
Saving Throw: None
Upon completion of this spell, one of the caster's hands (his choice) turns to stone. It 
is flexible and can be used to punch, smash, or crush objects and opponents as if the 
wizard had Strength of 18/00. Combat bonuses for Strength do not apply if the caster uses 
any weapon other than his fist.
While the spell is in effect, the wizard cannot cast spells requiring somatic 
components. 

 Friends
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
A friends spell causes the wizard to temporarily gain 2d4 points of Charisma.
Intelligent creatures within the area of effect at the time the spell is cast must make
immediate reaction checks based on the character's new Charisma. Those with favorable
reactions tend to be very impressed with the spellcaster and make an effort to be his
friends and help him, as appropriate to the situation. Officious bureaucrats might decide
to become helpful; surly gate guards might wax informative; attacking orcs might spare
the caster's life, taking him captive instead. When the spell wears off, the creatures realize
that they have been influenced, and their reactions are determined by the DM.
The components for this spell are chalk (or white flour), lampblack (or soot), and
vermilion applied to the face before casting the spell.

 Gaze Reflection
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The gaze reflection spell creates a shimmering, mirrorlike area of air before the wizard
that moves with the caster. Any gaze attack, such as that of a basilisk, eyes of charming, a
vampire's gaze, the 6th-level eyebite spell, and so on, is reflected back upon the gazer if
the gazer tries to make eye contact with the spellcaster (the spellcaster suffers no effects
from the gaze attack). Such creatures receive a saving throw vs. their own gaze effect.
The spell does not affect vision or lighting and is not effective against creatures whose
effect comes from being gazed upon (such as a medusa). Only active gaze attacks are
blocked by this spell.

 Grease
(Conjuration)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 x 10 ft. Saving Throw: Special
A grease spell covers a material surface with a slippery layer of a fatty, greasy nature.
Any creature entering the area or caught in it when the spell is cast must save vs. spell or
slip, skid, and fall. Those who successfully save can reach the nearest nongreased surface
by the end of the round. Those who remain in the area are allowed a saving throw each
round until they escape the area. The DM should adjust saving throws by circumstance;
for example, a creature charging down an incline that is suddenly greased has little
chance to avoid the effect, but its ability to exit the affected area is almost assured! The
spell can also be used to create a greasy coating on an item--a rope, ladder rungs, weapon
handle, etc. Material objects not in use are always affected by this spell, while creatures
wielding or employing items receive a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect. If the
initial saving throw is failed, the creature immediately drops the item. A saving throw
must be made each round the creature attempts to use the greased item. The caster can
end the effect with a single utterance; otherwise, it lasts for three rounds plus one round
per level.
The material component of the spell is a bit of pork rind or butter.

 Hold Portal
(Alteration)
Range: 20 yds./level Component: V
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 20 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
This spell magically bars a door, gate, or valve of wood, metal, or stone. The magical
closure holds the portal fast, just as if it were securely closed and locked. Any extraplanar
creature (djinn, elemental, etc.) with 4 or more Hit Dice can shatter the spell and burst
open the portal. A wizard of 4 or more experience levels higher than the spellcaster can
open the held portal at will. A knock spell or a successful dispel magic spell can negate
the hold portal. Held portals can be broken or physically battered down.

 
 Hornung's Guess* (Divination) 
Range: 300 yards
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Hornung, one of the leading wizards in the field of wild magic (before his untimely 
disappearance while experimenting with wildwind ), developed this spell to improve the 
accuracy of his estimates. The spell provides a wizard with an instant and highly accurate 
estimate of the number of persons or objects in a group.
The spell's area of effect is one group of a general class of objects. All objects of the 
group must be within spell range and the group as a whole must be visible to the caster. 
The wizard need not see every individual in the group, merely the general limits of the 
group's size and area. For example, a wizard on a hill could look down on a forest and 
estimate the number of trees in all or part of it. He could not get an estimate of the 
number of goblins within the forest, however, since the group as a whole (the goblins) is 
concealed from sight.
The estimate generated is accurate to the largest factor of ten (rounded up). For 
example, if Hornung's guess were cast on a group of 439 horsemen, the estimate would 
be 400. If there were 2,670 horsemen, the spell would estimate 3,000. If there were 37 
horsemen, the answer would be 40. Clearly, using the spell on small groups (especially 
those with fewer than 10 members) is pointless.
Hornung's guess can be used to quickly estimate the size of treasure hoards and army 
units. It is particularly popular with moneylenders and generals. 

 Hypnotism
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 5 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 30 ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
The gestures of the wizard, along with his droning incantation, cause 1d6 creatures
within the area to become susceptible to a suggestion--a brief and reasonable-sounding
request (see the 3rd-level wizard suggestion spell). The request must be given after the
hypnotism spell is cast. Until that time, the success of the spell is unknown. Note that the
subsequent suggestion is not a spell, but simply a vocalized urging (the caster must speak
a language the creature understands for this spell to work). Creatures that successfully
roll their saving throws are not under hypnotic influence. Those who are exceptionally
wary or hostile save with +1 to +3 bonuses. If the spell is cast at an individual creature
that meets the caster's gaze, the saving throw is made with a penalty of -2. A creature that
fails its saving throw does not remember that the caster enspelled it.

 Identify
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: 1 item/level Saving Throw: None
When an identify spell is cast, magical items subsequently touched by the wizard can
be identified. The eight hours immediately preceding the casting of the spell must be
spent purifying the items and removing influences that would corrupt and blur their
magical auras. If this period is interrupted, it must be begun again. When the spell is cast,
each item must be handled in turn by the wizard. Any consequences of this handling fall
fully upon the wizard and may end the spell, although the wizard is allowed any
applicable saving throw.
The chance of learning a piece of information about an item is equal to 10% per level
of the caster, to a maximum of 90%, rolled by the DM. Any roll of 96-00 indicates a false
reading (91-95 reveals nothing). Only one function of a multifunction item is discovered
per handling (i.e., a 5th-level wizard could attempt to determine the nature of five
different items, five different functions of a single item, or any combination of the two).
If any attempt at reading fails, the caster cannot learn any more about that item until he
advances a level. Note that some items, such as special magical tomes, cannot be
identified with this spell.
The item never reveals its exact attack or damage bonuses, although the fact that it has
few or many bonuses can be determined. If it has charges, only a general indication of the
number of charges remaining is learned: powerful (81% - 100% of the total possible
charges), strong (61% - 80%), moderate (41% - 60%), weak (6% - 40%), or faint (five
charges or less). The faint result takes precedence, so a fully charged ring of three wishes
always appears to be only faintly charged.
After casting the spell and determining what can be learned from it, the wizard loses 8
points of Constitution. He must rest for one hour to recover each point of Constitution. If
the 8-point loss drops the spellcaster below a Constitution of 1, he falls unconscious.
Consciousness is not regained until full Constitution is restored, which takes 24 hours
(one point per three hours for an unconscious character).
The material components of this spell are a pearl (of at least 100 gp value) and an owl
feather steeped in wine; the infusion must be drunk prior to spellcasting. If a luckstone is
powdered and added to the infusion, the divination becomes much more potent: Exact
bonuses or charges can be determined, and the functions of a multifunctional item can be
learned from a single reading. At the DM's option, certain properties of an artifact or relic
might also be learned.

 Jump
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
The individual touched when this spell is cast is empowered to leap once per round for
the duration of the spell. Leaps can be up to 30 feet forward or straight upward or 10 feet
backward. Horizontal leaps forward or backward have only a slight arc--about 2 feet per
10 feet of distance traveled. The jump spell does not ensure safety in landing or grasping
at the end of the leap.
The material component of this spell is a grasshopper's hind leg, to be broken by the
caster when the spell is cast.

 Lasting Breath (Alteration) 
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d4 rounds +1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell increases the amount of time a character can hold his breath. As described 
in the Player's Handbook, a character can hold his breath for a number of rounds equal to 
one-third his Constitution score. The effect of this spell is added to that figure.
The duration of the spell is always unknown to the recipient; the DM secretly rolls 
1d4 to determine the exact duration. At the end of this time, the character must succeed a 
Constitution check or be forced to take a breath as per the rules. 

 Light
(Alteration)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 20-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell creates a luminous glow, equal to torchlight, within a fixed radius of the
spell's center. Objects in darkness beyond this sphere can be seen, at best, as vague and
shadowy shapes. The spell is centered on a point selected by the caster, and he must have
a line of sight and unobstructed path for the spell when it is cast. Light can spring from
air, rock, metal, wood, or almost any similar substance.
The effect is immobile unless it is specifically centered on a moveable object or mobile
creature. If this spell is cast upon a creature, the applicable magic resistance and saving
throw rolls must be made. Successful resistance negates the spell, while a successful
saving throw indicates that the spell is centered immediately behind the creature, rather
than upon the creature itself. Light taken into an area of magical darkness does not
function, but if cast directly against magical darkness negates it (but only for the duration
of the light spell, if the darkness effect is continual).
Light centered on the visual organs of a creature blinds it, reducing its attack rolls and
saving throws by 4 and worsening its Armor Class by 4. The caster can end the spell at
any time by uttering a single word.
The material component is a firefly or a piece of phosphorescent moss.
 
 Magic Missile
(Evocation)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1-5 targets Saving Throw: None
Use of the magic missile spell creates up to five missiles of magical energy that dart
forth from the wizard's fingertip and unerringly strike their target. This includes enemy
creatures in a melee. The target creature must be seen or otherwise detected to be hit,
however, so near-total concealment, such as that offered by arrow slits, can render the
spell ineffective. Likewise, the caster must be able to identify the target. He cannot direct
a magic missile to "Strike the commander of the legion," unless he can single out the
commander from the rest of the soldiers. Specific parts of a creature cannot be singled
out. Inanimate objects (locks, etc.) cannot be damaged by the spell, and any attempt to do
so wastes the missiles to no effect. Against creatures, each missile inflicts 1d4+1 points
of damage.
For every two extra levels of experience, the wizard gains an additional missile--he has
two at 3rd level, three at 5th level, four at 7th level, etc., up to a total of five missiles at
9th level. If the wizard has multiple missile capability, he can have them strike a single
target creature or several creatures, as desired.

 Mending
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
This spell repairs small breaks or tears in objects. It will weld a broken ring, chain link,
medallion, or slender dagger, providing but one break exists. Ceramic or wooden objects
with multiple breaks can be invisibly rejoined to be as strong as new. A hole in a leather
sack or wineskin is completely healed over by a mending spell. This spell does not, by
itself, repair magical items of any type. One turn after the spell is cast, the magic of the
joining fades, and the effect cannot be magically dispelled. The maximum volume of
material the caster can mend is 1 cubic foot per level.
The material components of this spell are two small magnets of any type (lodestone in
all likelihood) or two burrs.

 Message
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard can whisper messages and receive replies with little
chance of being overheard. When the spell is cast, the wizard secretly or openly points
his finger at each creature to be included in the spell effect. Up to one creature per level
can be included. When the wizard whispers, the whispered message travels in a straight
line and is audible to all of the involved creatures within 30 feet, plus 10 feet per level of
the caster. The creatures who receive the message can whisper a reply that is heard by the
spellcaster. Note that there must be an unobstructed path between the spellcaster and the
recipients of the spell. The message must be in a language the caster speaks; this spell
does not by itself confer understanding upon the recipients. This spell is most often used
to conduct quick and private conferences when the caster does not wish to be overheard.
The material component of the spell is a short piece of copper wire.

 Metamorphose Liquids (Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 1'-cube/level
Saving Throw: Special
This spell transmutes one type of liquid into an equal amount of a different, 
nonmagical fluid (water, wine, blood, oil, apple cider, etc.). The caster must touch the 
fluid itself (not simply its container) for the spell to take effect.
Magical liquids (such as potions) receive a saving throw vs. disintegration with a +3 
bonus to avoid the spell's effect. Fluids can be transmuted only into nonmagical liquids; it 
is not possible to change a magical liquid into another type of magical liquid. Poisons 
may be rendered harmless through use of this spell, but the spell has no effect on poisons 
already consumed.
Living creatures are unaffected by the spell, excluding those from the elemental plane 
of water. Such creatures are allowed a saving throw vs. spell. Failure results in 1d4 points 
of damage per level of the caster, while success indicates half damage. Only one creature 
can be affected by a single casting of this spell, regardless of the creature's size.
The material component is a drop of the liquid that the caster intends to create, which 
must be placed on the wizard's tongue and consumed. Creating poisons through use of 
this spell is especially dangerous.

 Mount
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 mount Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster conjures a normal animal to serve him as a mount.
The animal serves willingly and well, but at the expiration of the spell duration it
disappears, returning to its own place. The type of mount gained by this spell depends on
the level of the caster; of course, a caster can choose a lesser mount if desired. Available
mounts include the following:

Caster Level Mount
 1-3 Mule or light horse
 4-7 Draft horse or war horse
 8-12 Camel
13-14 Elephant (and howdah at 18th level)
 15+ Griffon (and saddle at 18th level)

The mount does not come with any riding gear, unless it is of a class lower than the
caster would normally be entitled to; thus, a 4th-level wizard can gain a war horse
without saddle and harness, or a light horse with saddle and harness. The statistics of the
animal gained are typical of all creatures of the same class. The mount disappears when
slain.
The material component of the spell is a bit of hair from the type of animal to be
conjured.

 Murdock's Feathery Flyer (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None Upon casting this spell, a feathery membrane grows under the 
wizard's arms, extending along his sides all the way to his feet. The membrane appears to 
merge with the caster's skin and clothing. 
If the caster spreads his arms and jumps from a height, he may glide through the air. 
For each foot of elevation, the wizard can glide five feet horizontally. Thus, a wizard 
jumping from a 10-foot wall could glide up to 50 feet. Gliding characters have a 
movement rate of 12 and Maneuverability Class E. A wizard attempting to carry more 
than his normal weight allowance plummets to the earth upon takeoff.
When the spell expires, the feathers instantly disappear. If the wizard is airborne, he 
immediately plummets toward the ground.
The material component is an eagle's feather.

 Nahal's Reckless Dweomer* (Invocation/Evocation) 
Range: Special
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
This spell is the wild mage's ultimate last-resort spell. When cast, the mage releases a 
sudden flood of wild magical energy in the hope of seizing and shaping that energy into a 
desired spell effect. The attempt usually fails, but something almost always occurs in the 
process.Before casting the spell, the mage announces the spell effect he is trying to create. 
The mage must be able to cast the spell (i.e., have it in his spell books), but need not have 
it memorized. After announcing the spell (along with the target and any other conditions 
required by the spell), the wild mage casts Nahal's reckless dweomer. A burst of magical 
energy is released, which the wild mage tries to manipulate into the desired form. The 
actual effect of the spell is rolled randomly on Table 2: Wild Surge Results.
Because the release of energy is planned by the mage, his level is added to the dice 
roll. If the result indicates success, the mage has shaped the magical energy into the 
desired effect. More often than not, the effect is completely unexpected. The result may 
be beneficial to the mage or it may be completely disastrous; this is the risk the mage 
takes in casting Nahal's reckless dweomer. 

 Nystul's Magical Aura
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, any one item of no more than five pounds weight per level of
the spellcaster can be given an aura that is noticed by someone using magic detection.
Furthermore, the caster can specify the type of magical aura that is detected (alteration,
conjuration, etc.) and this effectively masks the item's actual aura, if any, unless the
item's own aura is exceptionally powerful (if it is an artifact, for instance). If the object
bearing Nystul's magical aura has an identify spell cast on it or is similarly examined, the
examiner has a 50% chance of recognizing that the aura has been placed to mislead the
unwary. Otherwise, the aura is believed and no amount of testing reveals what the true
magic is.
The component for this spell is a small square of silk, which must be passed over the
object that receives the aura.

 Orison
(Various schools)
Sphere: All
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Varies Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual/audio Critical: None
The most humble of priestly spells is the orison, a brief prayer or invocation of a 
minor nature. Typically, priests learn a number of orisons as acolytes or students in order 
to hone their spellcasting skills and emphasize concepts, ideals, or phrases of particular 
importance to the faith. Because an orisons is not even on par with other 1st-level magic, 
a priest memorizes a number of individual orisons equal to three +1 per level (up to a 
maximum of nine) when he devotes a 1st-level spell slot to orison. In other words, a 
1st-level priest can memorize four orisons for one 1st-level spell slot, a 2nd-level priest 
can memorize five, and so on.
Unlike cantrip, an orison must have a specific effect, although the priest need not 
decide which incantation he will use until he actually casts the spell. Regardless of the 
prayer chosen, the orison’s duration is never more than one round per level. Known 
orisons include the following:
 Alleviate: A single creature suffering from nausea or pain is relieved of its 
discomfort. Magically induced nausea or pain is only alleviated if the victim passes a 
saving throw vs. spell with a –2 penalty.
 Calm: A single creature that has been startled or frightened is soothed. Victims 
suffering from magical fear may attempt a save vs. spell with a –2 penalty to calm 
themselves.
 Clarity: For the duration of the orison, the priest’s speech is clear and free of 
impediment—useful for readings from sacred texts and other such rites. Magical 
conditions such as confuse languages cannot be overcome by this orison.
Courage: The priest gains a +1 bonus to his next attack roll, as long as the attack 
is made within the spell’s duration.
 Guidance: The priest gains a +1 bonus to a Wisdom or Intelligence check to 
determine the right course of action in a moral dilemma or puzzle.
 Healing: By his touch, the priest may heal a creature of 1 point of damage.
 Magic sense: If there is a persistent spell effect or magical item within 10 yards, 
the priest feels a recognizable tingle or sensation of some kind. He has no way to 
determine what item or spell may have caused the reaction.
 Memory: Any item the priest commits to memory during the spell duration is 
more completely and permanently learned; he gains a +2 bonus to any checks to recall 
the exact appearance, wording, or meaning of an item, text, or message.
 Resistance to magic: The caster gains a +1 bonus to his next saving throw 
against magic of any type, as long as it occurs during the orison’s duration.
 Resistance to poison: The priest gains a +1 bonus to his next saving throw vs. 
poison, as long as it occurs during the orison’s duration.

Other orisons of similar power or scope may be permitted by the DM. Generally, 
an orison should not affect more than one creature or die roll at a time, and an orison that 
can actually cause immediate harm to a creature should inflict no more than 1 or 2 points 
of damage. An offensive orison would be quite rare and most probably associated with an 
evil or chaotic priesthood.

 Patternweave* (Divination) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-foot square
Saving Throw: Special
Patternweave allows the caster to make sense of apparent chaos. The caster can see 
such things as pottery shards reformed into a whole pot, shreds of paper formed into a 
page, scattered parts as a working machine, or specific trails appearing out of overlapping 
footprints.
After casting the spell, the mage studies seemingly random elements--broken bits of 
glass, shreds of paper, intermingled trails, etc. The items to be studied must be tangible--
coded flashing lights, garbled speech, or thoughts of any kind cannot be studied.
The wizard must study the random elements for one round, after which the DM 
secretly makes a saving throw vs. spell for the wizard. If the saving throw is failed, the 
spell fails. However, if the saving throw is successful, the caster sees in his mind the 
pattern these objects form. If the items studied are truly random, no information is 
gained.
After the caster has visualized the pattern, he can attempt to reassemble the parts into 
their original form. This requires another saving throw vs. spell to determine whether the 
mage remembers sufficient details to accomplish the task. The amount of time required 
and the quality of restoration vary according to the complexity of the pattern. 
Reassembling a shredded map may be easy; reassembling a broken clock is significantly 
more difficult; rebuilding a shattered mosaic is extremely difficult. In any case, the 
wizard can make only a reasonable copy of the item. He can use this spell to restore 
works of art, but they will be worth only a small percentage of their original value.
The material component is a small hand lens through which the caster studies the 
objects. The lens is not consumed in the casting. 

 Phantasmal Force
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 400 sq. ft. + Saving Throw: Special
100 sq. ft./level
This spell creates the illusion of any object, creature, or force, as long as it is within the
boundaries of the spell's area of effect. The illusion is visual and affects all believing
creatures (undead are immune) that view it. It does not create sound, smell, or
temperature. Effects that depend on these senses usually fail. The illusion lasts until
struck by an opponent--unless the spellcaster causes the illusion to react appropriately--or
until the wizard ceases concentration upon the spell (due to desire, moving, or a
successful attack that causes damage). Saving throws for illusions are explained under
"Illusions" in Chapter 7: Magic and under "Adjudicating Illusions" at the beginning of
Appendix 2. Creatures that disbelieve the illusion see it for what it is and add +4 to
associates' saving throws if this knowledge can be communicated effectively. Creatures
believing the illusion are subject to its effects (again, as explained in Chapter 7).
The illusionary effect can be moved by the caster within the limits of the area of effect.
The DM has to rule on the effectiveness of this spell; detailed guidelines are outlined in
Chapter 7: Magic and under "Adjudicating Illusions" at the beginning of Appendix 2.
The material component of the spell is a bit of fleece.

 Protection from Chaos
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Law
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
Resembling the spell protection from evil, this abjuration wards the creature 
touched from the attacks of minions of chaos. Chaotic creatures suffer a –2 penalty to 
attack rolls against the spell recipient, and the subject gains a +2 bonus to saving throws 
against spells or other attacks employed by chaotic creatures. Attempts to possess, 
dominate, or exercise other forms of mental control against the recipient are 
automatically blocked by this spell.
Protection from chaos also wards the recipient against contact with extraplanar 
creatures of chaotic origin, including tanar’ri, slaad, and eladrin. Unlike protection from 
evil, this spell does not necessarily guard against summoned or conjured creatures unless 
the creatures in question are chaotic in alignment. However, protection from chaos does 
protect the recipient from creatures influenced by confusion and chaos spells and effects. 
The natural or bodily attacks of such creatures automatically fail, as long as the recipient 
does not use the spell’s power to trap, pin, or drive back the chaotic creatures in question. 
The spell ends if the recipient makes a melee attack against creatures that are prevented 
from attacking him by this spell.
The material component is a small ring of gold or lead tempered by a chaotic 
smith. Note that this spell is not reversible.

 Protection From Evil
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, it creates a magical barrier around the recipient at a distance of
1 foot. The barrier moves with the recipient and has three major effects:
First, all attacks made by evil (or evilly enchanted) creatures against the protected
creature suffer -2 penalties to attack rolls; any saving throws caused by such attacks are
made with +2 bonuses.
Second, any attempt to possess (as by a magic jar attack) or to exercise mental control
over (as by a vampire's charm ability) the protected creature is blocked by this spell. Note
that the protection does not prevent a vampire's charm itself, but it does prevent the
exercise of mental control through the barrier. Likewise, a possessing life force is merely
kept out. It would not be expelled if in place before the protection is cast.
Third, the spell prevents bodily contact by creatures of an extraplanar or conjured
nature (such as aerial servants, elementals, imps, invisible stalkers, salamanders, water
weirds, xorn, and others). This causes the natural (body) weapon attacks of such creatures
to fail and the creatures to recoil, if such attacks require touching the protected being.
Animals or monsters summoned or conjured by spells or similar magic are likewise
hedged from the character.
This protection ends if the protected character makes a melee attack against or tries to
force the barrier against the blocked creature.
To complete this spell, the wizard must trace a 3-foot-diameter circle on the floor (or
ground) with powdered silver.
This spell can be reversed to become protection from good; the second and third
benefits remain unchanged. The material component for the reverse is a circle of
powdered iron.

 Protection from Hunger and Thirst (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
When protection from hunger and thirst is cast, the recipient requires no food, water, 
or nourishment of any kind for the duration of the spell. The recipient can be the caster or 
anyone he touches. Each day the caster (or the subject of the caster's choice) is under the 
effect of the spell, he is fully nourished as if he had eaten and drunk normally. At the end 
of the spell's duration, the subject is no more hungry or thirsty than he was when the spell 
was originally cast. 
The material components for this spell are a small piece of dried meat and a cup of 
water. 

 Protection from Vermin
(Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual/olfactory Critical: None
This spell creates a magical barrier around the recipient, preventing the attacks of 
nonintelligent monsters of less than 1 Hit Die. Creatures in this category include normal 
centipedes, spiders, bats, and rats, but any monster with an Intelligence of low or better 
can ignore the spell’s effects.
The barrier extends about one foot from the protected character’s body and moves 
with him; vermin cannot tolerate the aura’s touch and recoil from the character. Any 
attacks that require physical contact (bites, stings, claws, etc.) automatically fail, but a 
creature with a ranged attack can still attack the spell’s recipient.
The spell ends if the recipient attacks a creature he has been protected against, or 
tries to pin or trap the vermin by forcing the repelling barrier against them. The material 
component for this spell is a cone of pungent incense burned in a tiny bronze censer 
containing osquip ashes.

 Ray of Fatigue
(Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds. + 5 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
This nefarious spell affects the victim’s life energies, increasing any fatigue or 
exhaustion the victim currently possesses. Alert and well-rested characters suddenly 
become tired and sluggish, and characters who are already fatigued may be reduced to 
near-helplessness. In effect, the ray adds one level of fatigue or encumbrance to the 
victim. Moderately encumbered characters suffer a –1 penalty to attack rolls; heavily 
encumbered characters suffer a –2 penalty to attacks rolls and a +1 Armor Class penalty; 
and severely encumbered characters suffer a –4 penalty to attack rolls and a +3 Armor 
Class penalty. (Assume that monsters suffer a –1 penalty to their attack rolls and reduce 
their movement rates by 33%.) The victim is allowed a saving throw to negate the spell’s 
effects.
If you are using the fatigue rules from the Player’s Option™: Combat & Tactics 
book, this spell operates in a slightly different manner—fresh characters become 
fatigued, gaining one level of encumbrance; fatigued characters become exhausted, 
gaining two levels of encumbrance; and exhausted characters collapse in a quivering 
heap, unable to move or attack.

 Read Magic
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of a read magic spell, the wizard is able to read magical inscriptions on
objects--books, scrolls, weapons, and the like--that would otherwise be totally
unintelligible. (The personal books of the wizard, and works already magically read, are
intelligible.) This deciphering does not normally invoke the magic contained in the
writing, although it may do so in the case of a cursed scroll. Furthermore, once the spell
is cast and the wizard has read the magical inscription, he is thereafter able to read that
particular writing without recourse to the use of the read magic spell. The duration of the
spell is two rounds per level of experience of the spellcaster; the wizard can read one
page or its equivalent per round.
The wizard must have a clear crystal or mineral prism, which is not expended, to cast
the spell.

 Shield
(Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, an invisible barrier comes into being in front of the wizard.
This shield totally negates magic missile attacks. It provides the equivalent protection of
AC 2 against hand-hurled missiles (axes, darts, javelins, spears, etc.), AC 3 against small
device-propelled missiles (arrows, bolts, bullets, manticore spikes, sling stones, etc.), and
AC 4 against all other forms of attack. The shield also adds a +1 bonus to the wizard's
saving throws against attacks that are basically frontal. Note that these benefits apply
only if the attacks originate from in front of the wizard, where the shield can move to
interpose itself.

 Shocking Grasp
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
When the wizard casts this spell, he develops a powerful electrical charge that gives a
jolt to the creature touched. The spell remains in effect for one round per level of the
caster or until it is discharged by the caster touching another creature. The shocking grasp
delivers 1d8 points of damage, plus 1 point per level of the wizard (for example, a 2nd 
level wizard would discharge a shock causing 1d8+2 points of damage). While the wizard
must come close enough to his opponent to lay a hand on the opponent's body or upon an
electrical conductor that touches the opponent's body, a like touch from the opponent
does not discharge the spell.

 Sleep
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When a wizard casts a sleep spell, he causes a comatose slumber to come upon one or
more creatures (other than undead and certain other creatures specifically excluded from
the spell's effects). All creatures to be affected by the sleep spell must be within 30 feet of
each other. The number of creatures that can be affected is a function of Hit Dice or
levels. The spell affects 2d4 Hit Dice of monsters. Monsters with 4+3 Hit Dice (4 Hit
Dice plus 3 hit points) or more are unaffected. The center of the area of effect is
determined by the spellcaster. The creatures with the least Hit Dice are affected first, and
partial effects are ignored.
For example, a wizard casts sleep at three kobolds, two gnolls, and an ogre. The roll
(2d4) result is 4. All the kobolds and one gnoll are affected (_ + _ + _ + 2 = 3 _ Hit Dice).
Note that the remainder is not enough to affect the last gnoll or the ogre.
Slapping or wounding awakens affected creatures but normal noise does not.
Awakening requires one entire round. Magically sleeping opponents can be attacked with
substantial bonuses (see "Modifiers to the Attack Roll" in Chapter 9: Combat).
The material component for this spell is a pinch of fine sand, rose petals, or a live
cricket.

 Sound Bubble 
(Abjuration, Evocation)
Level: 1
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 10 rounds + 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, an invisible bubble springs into existence. It can either be 
centered on and mobile with the caster or cast on an area. The mobile bubble has a radius 
of 10 feet, while the area bubble has a radius of 5 feet per caster level. The bubble has 
only one effect: sound can't pass through it. Thus sound generated within the bubble can't 
be heard by those on the outside and vice versa.
Bards often use this spell to enhance the quality and effect of their performances. It 
also functions nicely when a bard wishes to use one of his talents in a dungeon or other 
limited setting in which noise is sure to draw unwanted attention.
Besides its entertainment functions, sound bubble is also useful in many of the same 
situations in which silence is used.
The material component of the spell is a blown egg shell or a soap bubble.

 Spider Climb
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: Neg.
A spider climb spell enables the recipient to climb and travel upon vertical surfaces as
well as a giant spider, or even hang upside down from ceilings. Unwilling victims must
be touched and are then allowed a saving throw vs. spell to negate the effect. The affected
creature must have bare hands and feet in order to climb in this manner, at a movement
rate of 6 (3 if at all encumbered). During the course of the spell, the recipient cannot
handle objects that weigh less than a dagger (one pound), for such objects stick to his
hands and feet. Thus, a wizard will find it virtually impossible to cast spells if under a
spider climb spell. Sufficient force can pull the recipient free; the DM can assign a saving
throw based on circumstances, the strength of the force, and so on. For example, a
creature with a Strength of 12 might pull the subject free if the subject fails a saving
throw vs. paralyzation (a moderately difficult saving throw). The caster can end the spell
effect with a word.
The material components of this spell are a drop of bitumen and a live spider, both of
which must be eaten by the spell recipient.

 Spook
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 ft. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
A spook spell enables the wizard to play upon natural fears to cause the target creature
to perceive the spellcaster as someone or something inimical. Without actually knowing
what this is, the wizard merely advances threateningly upon the creature. If the creature
does not make a successful saving throw vs. spell, it turns and flees at maximum speed as
far from the wizard as possible, though items carried are not dropped. The creature has a
saving throw penalty of -1 for every two experience levels of the caster, to a maximum of
-6 at 12th level. Note that a natural (unmodified) roll of 20 automatically succeeds,
regardless of saving throw penalties. Although the caster does not actually pursue the
fleeing creature, a phantasm from its own mind does. Each round after the initial casting,
the creature receives another saving throw, without penalty, until it successfully saves
and the spell is broken. In any event, the spell functions only against creatures with
Intelligences of 2 or more, and undead are not affected at all.

 Strength of Stone
(Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental Earth
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds.+ 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell grants supernatural strength to the recipient by raising his Strength 
score by 1d4 points or to a minimum of 16, whichever is higher. Each 10% of exceptional 
Strength counts as 1 point, so a character with a Strength of 17 could be raised as high as 
an 18/30, but no higher. Both the priest and the recipient must be in contact with solid 
stone or earth when the spell is cast—standing on the ground will do nicely, but flying or 
swimming will not. The spell lasts for 3 rounds plus 1 round per caster level or until the 
subject loses contact with the earth. Obviously, this can happen in a number of ways, 
including being picked up or grappled by a larger creature, being knocked through the air 
by an impact or explosion, or even being magically moved in some fashion.
The material components are a chip of granite and a hair from a giant.

 Sunscorch
(Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: Sun
Range: 40 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: d6
Sensory: Moderate visual, Critical: Medium (1 
 moderate tactile hit) fire
This spell creates a brilliant ray of scorching heat that slants down from the sky to 
strike one target of the caster’s choice. The victim is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell to 
avoid the ray—a successful save indicates that it missed altogether. Any creature struck 
by the ray sustains 1d6 points of damage, plus 1 point per caster level. Undead creatures 
and monsters vulnerable to bright light sustain 1d6 points of damage, plus 2 points per 
caster level. In addition to sustaining damage, living victims are also blinded for 1d4 
rounds by the spell.
The sun must be in the sky when sunscorch is cast, or the spell fails entirely. It 
cannot be cast underground, indoors, or in hours of darkness, although routine overcasts 
do not hinder the sunscorch.

 Taunt
(Enchantment)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
A taunt spell enables the caster to jape and jeer effectively at a single type of creature
with an Intelligence of 2 or greater. The caster need not speak the language of the
creatures. His words and sounds have real meaning for the subject creature or creatures,
challenging, insulting, and generally irritating and angering the listeners. Those failing to
save vs. spell rush forth in fury to do battle with the spellcaster. All affected creatures
attack the spellcaster in melee if physically capable of doing so, seeking to use body or
hand-held weapons rather than missile weapons or spells.
Separation of the caster from the victim by an impenetrable or uncrossable boundary (a
wall of fire, a deep chasm, a formation of set pikemen) causes the spell to break. If the
caster taunts a mixed group, he must choose the type of creature to be affected. Creatures
commanded by a strong leader (i.e., with a Charisma bonus, with higher Hit Dice, etc.)
might gain a saving throw bonus of +1 to +4, at the DM's discretion. If used in
conjunction with a ventriloquism spell, the creatures may attack the apparent source,
depending upon their Intelligence, a leader's presence, and so on.
The material component is a slug, which is hurled at the creatures to be taunted.

 Tenser's Floating Disc
(Evocation)
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 turns + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster creates the slightly concave, circular plane of force known as
Tenser's floating disc (after the famed wizard whose greed and ability to locate treasure
are well known). The disc is 3 feet in diameter and holds 100 pounds of weight per level
of the wizard casting the spell. The disc floats approximately 3 feet above the ground at
all times and remains level. It floats along horizontally within its range of 20 yards at the
command of the caster, and will accompany him at a movement rate of no more than 6. If
unguided, it maintains a constant interval of 6 feet between itself and the wizard. If the
spellcaster moves beyond range (by moving faster, by such means as a teleport spell, or
by trying to take the disc more than 3 feet from the surface beneath it), or if the spell
duration expires, the floating disc winks out of existence, and whatever it was supporting
crashes to the surface beneath it.
The material component of the spell is a drop of mercury.

 Unseen Servant
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr. + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
The unseen servant is an invisible, mindless, and shapeless force, used to step and
fetch, open unstuck doors, and hold chairs, as well as to clean and mend. It is not strong,
but unfailingly obeys the command of the wizard. It can perform only one activity at a
time and can move only lightweight items, carrying a maximum of 20 pounds or
pushing/pulling 40 pounds across a smooth surface. It can open only normal doors,
drawers, lids, etc. The unseen servant cannot fight, nor can it be killed, as it is a force
rather than a creature. It can be magically dispelled, or eliminated after receiving 6 points
of damage from area-effect spells, breath weapons, or similar attacks. If the caster
attempts to send it beyond the allowed radius, the spell ends immediately.
The material components of the spell are a piece of string and a bit of wood.

 Wind Column
(Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental Air
Range: 0 Components: S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +1 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
A priest with access to this spell need not fear most routine falls, since the casting 
of the wind column creates a pillar of strong winds to slow his descent. The spell is most 
effective in areas or regions where a strong breeze is available, such as the heights of a 
mountain or the mast of a ship at sea. In areas of dead, calm air, it is much more difficult 
to muster the windpower necessary to arrest the caster’s fall. The caster’s rate of descent 
(and risk of damage) varies with the strength of the prevailing winds, as shown below.
If the wind is very strong, the caster can even choose to gain altitude instead of 
falling, although he can rise no higher than 5 feet per level above his original height 
before the wind column loses cohesiveness and he starts to fall again. However, a priest 
could use this to leap out a castle window and allow the winds to bear him to the roof of 
the tower, if the conditions are right.

Wind Strength | Falling Rate                 | Damage Sustained 
Very strong   |  ±2 ft./sec. (120 ft./rd.)   |  None
Strong        |  4 ft./sec. (240 ft./rd.)    |  None
Moderate      |  8 ft./sec. (480 ft./rd.)    |  1 per 10 ft.1
Light         |  16 ft./sec. (960 ft./rd.)   |  1d2 per 10 ft.2
None          |  32 ft./sec. (2000 ft./rd.)  |  1d3 per 10 ft.3

1 Maximum of 8 points
2 Maximum of 10d2
3 Maximum of 12d3
If you prefer to use the combat round scale from Player’s Option: Combat & 
Tactics, rounds are approximately one-tenth as long, and movement per round is reduced 
accordingly. For example, in moderate winds, the caster will fall about 48 feet per round 
in the Combat & Tactics scale.

 Ventriloquism
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level, max. 90 yds. Components: V, M
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell enables the wizard to make his voice--or someone else's voice--or a similar
sound seem to issue from someplace else, such as from another creature, a statue, from
behind a door, down a passage, etc. The spellcaster can speak in any language that he
knows, or make any sound that he can normally make. With respect to such voices and
sounds, anyone rolling a successful saving throw vs. spell with a -2 penalty detects the
ruse. If cast in conjunction with other illusions, the DM may rule greater penalties or
disallow an independent saving throw against this spell in consideration of its
contribution to the total effect of the combined illusion.
The material component of this spell is a parchment rolled up into a small cone.

 Wall of Fog
(Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 20 ft. cube Saving Throw: None
+ 10 ft. cube/level
By casting this spell, the wizard creates a billowing wall of misty vapors in any area
within the spell range. The wall of fog obscures all sight, normal and infravision, beyond
2 feet. The caster may create less vapor if he wishes. The wall must be a roughly cubic or
rectangular mass, at least 10 feet across in its smallest dimension. The misty vapors
persist for three or more rounds. Their duration can be halved by a moderate wind, and
they can be blown away by a strong wind.
The material component is a pinch of split dried peas.

 Wizard Mark
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Up to 1 sq. ft. Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard is able to inscribe, visibly or invisibly, his personal
rune or mark, as well as up to six additional characters of smaller size. A wizard mark
spell enables the caster to etch the rune upon stone, metal, or any softer substance without
harm to the material upon which the mark is placed. If an invisible mark is made, a detect
magic spell will cause it to glow and be visible (though not necessarily understandable).
Detect invisibility, true seeing, a gem of seeing, or a robe of eyes will likewise expose an
invisible wizard mark. A read magic spell will reveal the maker's words, if any. The
mark cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed by the caster or by an erase spell. If cast
on a living being, normal wear gradually causes the mark to fade.
The material components for this spell are a pinch of diamond dust (about 100 gp
worth) and a pigment or pigments for the coloration of the mark. If the mark is to be
invisible, the pigments are still used, but the caster uses a stylus of some sort rather than
his finger.

 First-Level Spells

 Analyze Balance (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers, Divination
Range: 80 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round 
Area of Effect: One creature, object, or 10' square 
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a priest to sense how far a character, creature, object, or area is from 
a condition of balance -- in other words, the degree to which its alignment is removed 
from true Neutral. The spell gives no indication of the "direction" in which the alignment 
is removed from true Neutral except under certain conditions which follow. The spell 
does, however, indicate along which axis or axes of alignment the variation lies.
For example, a priest uses this spell to analyze the balance of a Chaotic Neutral 
creature. The spell indicates that the creature is removed from Neutral by one grade, and 
the variation is along the Law/Chaos axis; thus, the creature must be either Chaotic 
Neutral or Lawful Neutral. If the creature were Chaotic Evil, the spell would indicate that 
it is removed from balance by two grades, one along each axis; thus, the creature must be 
Chaotic Evil, Chaotic Good, Lawful Evil, or Lawful Good.
A priest has a 5% chance per level of correctly determining the direction of variation 
along one randomly chosen axis. This means that a 10th-level priest evaluating the 
balance of a Chaotic Neutral creature would have a 50% chance of learning that the 
creature is Chaotic (and hence Chaotic Neutral, since it is only one step away from 
balance).
Similar to spells such as detect evil, this spell will not yield a result on a hidden trap. 
If cast on a creature with an intelligence level of "animal" or "non-," it will always read 
true Neutral (i.e., zero steps removed from balance).
The material components are four iron coins which the priest tosses in his hand while 
concentrating on the spell. The coins are not consumed in the casting. 

 Animal Friendship
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 hr.
Area of Effect: 1 animal Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the caster is able to show any animal of animal intelligence to
semi-intelligence (i.e., Intelligence 1-4) that he desires friendship. If the animal does not
roll a successful saving throw vs. spell immediately when the spell is begun, it stands
quietly while the caster finishes the spell. Thereafter, it follows the caster about. The spell
functions only if the caster actually wishes to be the animal's friend. If the caster has
ulterior motives, the animal always senses them (for example, the caster intends to eat the
animal, send it ahead to set off traps, etc.).
The caster can teach the befriended animal three specific tricks or tasks for each point
of Intelligence it possesses. Typical tasks are those taught to a dog or similar pet (i.e.,
they cannot be complex). Training for each such trick must be done over a period of one
week, and all must be done within three months of acquiring the creature. During the
three-month period, the animal will not harm the caster, but if the creature is left alone for
more than a week, it will revert to its natural state and act accordingly.
The caster can use this spell to attract up to 2 Hit Dice of animal(s) per experience
level he possesses. This is also the maximum total Hit Dice of the animals that can be
attracted and trained at one time: no more than twice the caster's experience level. Only
unaligned animals can be attracted, befriended, and trained.
The material components of this spell are the caster's holy symbol and a piece of food
liked by the animal.

 Anti-Vermin Barrier (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster creates an invisible force field that repels nonmagical 
insects, rodents, spiders, snakes, worms, and similar vermin of less than 1 Hit Die. The 
spell has no effect on giant-sized versions of these creatures unless they are less than 1 
Hit Die. The barrier affects summoned creatures, such as those called by a summon 
insects spell.
Any vermin within the area of effect when the spell is cast are not affected; however, 
when these creatures exit the area, they cannot return.
The spell affects a cubic area whose sides are 10 feet times the caster's level (for 
instance, a 2nd-level priest could affect a 20'x 20'x 20' cube.
The material components are the caster's holy symbol and a rodent's whisker. 

 Beastmask (Illusion/Phantasm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 12 hours
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
Beastmask may affect any single person or animal, or characters may cast it on 
themselves. It allows the subject to take on the illusory form of a single animal species--
but only that species of animal can perceive the illusion. The subject may not assume an 
animal form more than twice or less than one-quarter the character's size.
The almost perfect illusion the spell creates deceives the animal's sight, hearing, 
smell, and touch. For instance, once a character casts a "bear" illusion on a subject, bears 
believe that subject to be a bear, while to humans, other races, and other creatures, the 
subject remains the same.
Characters normally use beastmask to travel among or hunt a particular species. This 
spell lets a druid assume the guise of a caribou to move among a herd without causing 
them to panic. A character also could avoid being attacked by a pack of dire wolves by 
wearing a wolf's "mask." 
Beastmask does not allow communication with the animal species, though it can be 
used with animal communication spells.
The material component is a miniature wooden mask carved to look like the animal.

 Bless
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: All
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 6 rds. Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 50-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
Upon uttering the bless spell, the caster raises the morale of friendly creatures and any
saving throw rolls they make against fear effects by +1. Furthermore, it raises their attack
dice rolls by +1. A blessing, however, affects only those not already engaged in melee
combat. The caster determines at what range (up to 60 yards) he will cast the spell. At the
instant the spell is completed, it affects all creatures in a 50-foot cube centered on the
point selected by the caster (thus, affected creatures leaving the area are still subject to
the spell's effect; those entering the area after the casting is completed are not).
A second use of this spell is to bless a single item (for example, a crossbow bolt for use
against a rakshasa). The weight of the item is limited to one pound per caster level and
the effect lasts until the item is used or the spell duration ends.
Multiple bless spells are not cumulative. In addition to the verbal and somatic gesture
components, the bless spell requires holy water.
This spell can be reversed by the priest to a curse spell that, when cast upon enemy
creatures, lowers their morale and attack rolls by -1. The curse requires the sprinkling of
unholy water.

 Call Upon Faith (Invocation) 
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
Before attempting a difficult task, the priest may cast call upon faith to aid his 
performance. If the priest has been true to his faith (as determined by the DM), the priest 
gains a +3 (or +15%) bonus to one die roll (his choice) needed to complete the task. The 
bonus may be used to affect a saving throw, attack roll, ability check, etc. For example, if 
a priest were about to cross a narrow log high above a chasm, he could cast this spell and 
gain a +3 bonus to his Dexterity ability check.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.


 Combine
(Evocation)
Sphere: All
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Circle of priests Saving Throw: None
Using this spell, three to five priests combine their abilities so that one of them casts
spells and turns undead at an enhanced level. The highest-level priest (or one of them, if
two or more are tied for highest) stands alone, while the others join hands in a
surrounding circle. The central priest casts the combine spell. He temporarily gains one
level for each priest in the circle, up to a maximum gain of four levels. The level increase
affects turning undead and spell details that vary with the caster's level. Note that the
central priest gains no additional spells and that the group is limited to his currently
memorized spells.
The encircling priests must concentrate on maintaining the combine effect. They lose
all Armor Class bonuses for shield and Dexterity. If any of them has his concentration
broken, the combine spell ends immediately. If the combine spell is broken while the
central priest is in the act of casting a spell, that spell is ruined just as if the caster were
disturbed. Spells cast in combination have the full enhanced effect, even if the combine is
broken before the duration of the enhanced spell ends. Note that the combination is not
broken if only the central caster is disturbed.

 Command
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 30 yds. Component: V
Duration: 1 rd. Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the priest to command another creature with a single word. The
command must be uttered in a language understood by the creature. The subject will obey
to the best of his/its ability only as long as the command is absolutely clear and
unequivocal; thus, a command of "Suicide!" is ignored. A command to "Die!" causes the
creature to fall in a faint or cataleptic state for one round, but thereafter the creature
revives and is alive and well. Typical commands are back, halt, flee, run, stop, fall, go,
leave, surrender, sleep, rest, etc. No command affects a creature for more than one round;
undead are not affected at all. Creatures with Intelligence of 13 (high) or more, or those
with 6 or more Hit Dice (or experience levels) are entitled to a saving throw vs. spell,
adjusted for Wisdom. (Creatures with 13 or higher Intelligence and 6 Hit Dice/levels get
only one saving throw!)

 Courage (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 240 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One unit up to 200 individuals
Saving Throw: None
This spell imbues the target unit with a temporary burst of courage. To cast this spell, 
the priest must have an uninterrupted line of sight to the target unit.
A courage spell enables a unit to automatically pass its first morale check following 
the casting of this spell. When circumstances arise that would necessitate a morale check, 
no die roll is made and the unit is assumed to have passed the check. After this occurs, 
the spell ends and the unit must make all future morale checks normally.
If a unit under the influence of a courage spell is not forced to make any morale 
checks, the spell expires at the first sunset.
When several different events simultaneously trigger morale checks, the 
BATTLESYSTEM™ rules apply penalties to a single morale check. If this occurs to a 
unit under the influence of a courage spell, the player commanding the unit selects one 
such event and its modifier is ignored.
No more than one courage spell can affect a unit at one time. Once the spell has 
expired, a priest can cast the spell again on the same unit.
The material component is a cube of cast iron. 

 Create Water
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Up to 27 cu. ft. Saving Throw: None
When the priest casts a create water spell, up to four gallons of water are generated for
every experience level of the caster (for example, a 2nd-level priest creates up to 8
gallons of water, a 3rd-level priest up to 12 gallons, etc.). The water is clean and
drinkable (it is just like rain water). The created water can be dispelled within a round of
its creation; otherwise, its magic fades, leaving normal water that can be used, spilled,
evaporated, etc. The reverse of the spell, destroy water, obliterates without trace (no
vapor, mist, fog, or steam) a like quantity of water. Water can be created or destroyed in
an area as small as will actually contain the liquid, or in an area as large as 27 cubic feet
(1 cubic yard).
Note that water can neither be created nor destroyed within a creature. For reference
purposes, water weighs about 8 _ pounds per gallon, and a cubic foot of water weighs
approximately 64 pounds.
The create water spell requires at least a drop of water; the destroy water spell, at least
a pinch of dust.

 Cure Light Wounds
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
When casting this spell and laying his hand upon a creature, the priest causes 1d8
points of wound or other injury damage to the creature's body to be healed. This healing
cannot affect creatures without corporeal bodies, nor can it cure wounds of creatures not
living or of extraplanar origin.
The reverse of the spell, cause light wounds, operates in the same manner, inflicting
1d8 points of damage. If a creature is avoiding this touch, an attack roll is needed to
determine if the priest's hand strikes the opponent and causes such a wound.
Curing is permanent only insofar as the creature does not sustain further damage;
caused wounds will heal--or can be cured--just as any normal injury.

 Detect Evil
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: All
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 10 ft. x 120 yds. Saving Throw: None
This spell discovers emanations of evil, or of good in the case of the reverse spell, from
any creature, object, or area. Character alignment, however, is revealed only under
unusual circumstances: characters who are strongly aligned, who do not stray from their
faith, and who are of at least 9th level might radiate good or evil if intent upon
appropriate actions. Powerful monsters, such as rakshasas or ki-rin, send forth
emanations of evil or good, even if polymorphed. Aligned undead radiate evil, for it is
this power and negative force that enable them to continue existing. An evilly cursed
object or unholy water radiates evil, but a hidden trap or an unintelligent viper does not.
The degree of evil (dim, faint, moderate, strong, or overwhelming) and possibly its
general nature (expectant, malignant, gloating, etc.) can be noted. If the evil is
overwhelming, the priest has a 10% chance per level of detecting its general bent (lawful,
neutral, or chaotic). The duration of a detect evil (or detect good) spell is one turn plus
five rounds per level of the priest. Thus, a 1st-level priest can cast a spell with a 15-round
duration, a 2nd-level priest can cast a spell with a 20-round duration, etc. The spell has a
path of detection 10 feet wide in the direction the priest is facing. The priest must
concentrate--stop, have quiet, and intently seek to detect the aura--for at least one round
to receive a reading.
The spell requires the use of the priest's holy symbol as its material component, with
the priest holding it before him.

 Detect Magic
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 10 ft. x 30 yds. Saving Throw: None
When the detect magic spell is cast, the priest detects magical radiations in a path 10
feet wide and up to 30 yards long, in the direction he is facing. The intensity of the magic
can be detected (dim, faint, moderate, strong, or overwhelming). The caster has a 10%
chance per level to determine the sphere of the magic, but unlike the wizard version of
the spell, the type of magic (alteration, conjuration, etc.) cannot be divined. The caster
can turn, scanning a 60 arc per round. The spell is blocked by solid stone at least 1 foot
thick, solid metal at least 1 inch thick, or solid wood at least 1 yard thick.
The spell requires the use of the priest's holy symbol.

 Detect Poison
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the priest to determine if an object has been poisoned or is
poisonous. One object, or one 5-foot cubic mass, can be checked per round. The priest
has a 5% chance per level of determining the exact type of poison.
The material component is a strip of specially blessed vellum, which turns black if
poison is present.

 Detect Snares & Pits
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 10 x 40 ft. Saving Throw: None
Upon casting this spell, the caster is able to detect snares, pits, deadfalls and similar
hazards along a path 10 feet wide and 40 feet long. Such hazards include simple pits,
deadfalls, snares of wilderness creatures (for example, trapdoor spiders, giant sundews,
ant lions, etc.), and primitive traps constructed of natural materials (mantraps, missile
trips, hunting snares, etc.). The spell is directional--the caster must face the desired
direction to determine if a pit exists or a trap is laid in that direction. The caster
experiences a feeling of danger from the direction of a detected hazard, which increases
as the danger is approached. The caster learns the general nature of the danger (pit, snare,
or deadfall) but not its exact operation, nor how to disarm it. Close examination,
however, enables the caster to sense what intended actions might trigger it. The spell
detects certain natural hazards--quicksand (snare), sinkholes (pit), or unsafe walls of
natural rock (deadfall). Other hazards, such as a cavern that floods during rain, an unsafe
construction, or a naturally poisonous plant, are not revealed. The spell does not detect
magical traps (save those that operate by pit, deadfall, or snaring; see the 2nd-level spell
trip and the 3rd-level spell snare), nor those that are mechanically complex, nor those
that have been rendered safe or inactive.
The caster must have his holy symbol to complete the spell.

 Emotion Read (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell allows the priest to perform an instantaneous reading of a single subject's 
emotional state. It can be used on any subject possessing Intelligence of 3 or better. This 
reading is neither deep nor specific and cannot pick out mixed emotions or intricate 
details. For example, it might tell the priest that the subject is fearful, but the spell cannot 
reveal what the subject is afraid of or why he is afraid.
Emotion read does not reveal individual thoughts or the subject's motivation. Thus, 
the spell might reveal that the subject is coldly unemotional at the moment, but not the 
fact that the subject is contemplating the cold-blooded murder of the priest.
 Note that this reading is instantaneous. It reveals only the emotion that is strongest at 
the instant the spell is used. While this will usually be related to the subject's overall 
emotional state, it is always possible that the subject might be distracted for a moment or
remember and respond to past events.
The subject is allowed a normal saving throw vs. spells to resist this spell. If the 
saving throw is successful, the priest receives no reading at all. If the subject's roll 
exceeds the necessary number by six or more, the priest perceives an emotion 
diametrically opposite to the subject's true emotion.
The material component is a square of unmarked white wax. 

 Endure Cold/Endure Heat
(Alteration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 _ hrs./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
The creature receiving this spell is protected from normal extremes of cold or heat
(depending on which application the priest selects at the time of casting). The creature
can stand unprotected in temperatures as low as -30 F. or as high as 130 F. (depending
on application) with no ill effect. Temperatures beyond these limits inflict 1 point of
damage per hour of exposure for every degree beyond the limit. The spell is immediately
cancelled if the recipient is affected by any non-normal heat or cold, such as magic,
breath weapons, and so on. The cancellation occurs regardless of the application and
regardless of whether a heat or cold effect hits the character (for example, an endure cold
spell is cancelled by magical heat or fire as well as by magical cold). The recipient of the
spell does not suffer the first 10 points of damage (after any applicable saving throws)
from the heat or cold during the round in which the spell is broken. The spell ends
instantly if either resist fire or resist cold is cast upon the recipient.

 Entangle
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 40-ft. cube Saving Throw: _
By means of this spell, the caster is able to cause plants in the area of effect to entangle
creatures within the area. The grasses, weeds, bushes, and even trees wrap, twist, and
entwine about the creatures, holding them fast for the duration of the spell. Any creature
entering the area is subject to this effect. A creature that rolls a successful saving throw
vs. spell can escape the area, moving at only 10 feet per round until out of the area.
Exceptionally large (gargantuan) or strong creatures may suffer little or no distress from
this spell, at the DM's option, based on the strength of the entangling plants.
The material component is the caster's holy symbol.

 Faerie Fire
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 80 yds. Component: V, M
Duration: 4 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 10 sq. ft/level Saving Throw: None
within a 40-ft. radius
This spell enables the caster to outline one or more objects or creatures with a pale
glowing light. The number of subjects outlined depends upon the number of square feet
the caster can affect. Sufficient footage enables several objects or creatures to be outlined
by the faerie fire spell, but one must be fully outlined before the next is begun, and all
must be within the area of effect. Outlined objects or creatures are visible at 80 yards in
the dark and 40 yards if the viewer is near a bright light source. Outlined creatures are
easier to strike; thus, opponents gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls in darkness (including
moonlit nights) and a +1 bonus in twilight or better. Note that outlining can render
otherwise invisible creatures visible. However, it cannot outline noncorporeal, ethereal,
or gaseous creatures. Nor does the light come anywhere close to sunlight. Therefore, it
has no special effect on undead or dark-dwelling creatures. The faerie fire can be blue,
green, or violet according to the word of the caster at the time of casting. The faerie fire
does not cause any harm to the object or creature thus outlined.
The material component is a small piece of foxfire.

 Invisibility to Animals
(Alteration)
Sphere: Animal
Range: Touch Components: S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature/level Saving Throw: None
When an invisibility to animals spell is cast, the creature touched becomes totally
undetectable by normal animals with Intelligences under 6. Normal animals includes
giant-sized varieties, but it excludes any with magical abilities or powers. The enchanted
individual is able to walk among such animals or pass through them as if he did not exist.
For example, this individual could stand before the hungriest of lions or a tyrannosaurus
rex and not be molested or even noticed. However, a nightmare, hell hound, or winter
wolf would certainly be aware of the individual. For every level the caster has achieved,
one creature can be rendered invisible. Any recipient attacking while this spell is in effect
ends the spell immediately (for himself only).
The material component of this spell is holly rubbed over the recipient.

 Invisibility to Undead
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 6 rds. Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes affected undead to lose track of and ignore the warded creature for
the duration of the spell. Undead of 4 or fewer Hit Dice are automatically affected, but
those with more Hit Dice receive a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect. Note that a
priest protected by this spell cannot turn affected undead. The spell ends immediately if
the recipient makes any attack, although casting spells such as cure light wounds, augury,
or chant does not end the ward.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.

 Know Age (Divination) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One object or creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to instantly know the age of any single person, creature, 
or object on which he concentrates. The age is accurate to the nearest year.
The material component is a calendar page. 

 Know Direction (Divination) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Know direction allows the caster to instantly know the direction of north. The spell is 
effective in any environment, whether underwater, underground, or in darkness 
(including magical darkness).
The material component is a small scrap of a parchment map that is at least 100 years 
old.

 Know Time (Divination) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
 Know time is particularly useful when the caster has been unconscious. This spell 
enables the caster to know the precise time of day to the nearest minute, including the 
current hour, day, month, and year. 

 Light
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Sun
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr. + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20-ft.-radius globe Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes a luminous glow within 20 feet of the spell's center. The area of light
thus caused is equal in brightness to torchlight. Objects in darkness beyond this sphere
can be seen, at best, as vague and shadowy shapes. The spell is centered on a point
selected by the caster, and he must have a line of sight or unobstructed path to that point
when the spell is cast. Light can spring from air, rock, metal, wood, or almost any similar
substance. The effect is immobile unless it is specifically centered on a movable object or
mobile creature. If this spell is cast upon a creature, any applicable magic resistance and
saving throws must be rolled. Successful resistance negates the spell, while a successful
saving throw indicates that the spell is centered immediately behind the creature, rather
than upon the creature itself. A light spell centered on the visual organs of a creature
blinds it, reducing its attack and saving throw rolls by 4 and worsening its Armor Class
by 4. The caster can extinguish the light at any time by uttering a single word. Light
spells are not cumulative--multiple castings do not provide a brighter light.
The spell is reversible, causing darkness in the same area and under the same
conditions as the light spell, but with half the duration. Magical darkness is equal to that
of an unlit interior room--pitch darkness. Any normal light source or magical light source
of lesser intensity than full daylight does not function in magical darkness. A darkness
spell cast directly against a light spell cancels both, and vice versa.

 Locate Animals or Plants
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination (Animal, Plant)
Range: 100 yds. + 20 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 20 yds./level x 20 ft. Saving Throw: None
The caster can find the direction and distance of any one type of animal or plant he
desires. The caster, facing in a direction, thinks of the animal or plant, and then knows if
any such animal or plant is within range. If so, the exact distance and approximate
number present is learned. During each round of the spell's duration, the caster can face
in only one direction (i.e., only a 20-foot-wide path can be known). The spell lasts one
round per level of experience of the caster, while the length of the path is 100 yards plus
20 yards per level of experience. (At the DM's option, some casters may be able to locate
only those animals [or plants] associated closely with their own mythos.)
While the exact chance of locating a specific type of animal or plant depends on the
details and circumstances of the locale, the general frequency of the subject can be used
as a guideline: common = 50%, uncommon = 30%, rare = 15%, and very rare = 5%. Most
herbs grow in temperate regions, while most spices grow in tropical regions. Most plants
sought as spell components or for magical research are rare or very rare. The results of
this spell are always determined by the DM.
The material component is the caster's holy symbol.

 Log of Everburning (Enchantment) 
Sphere: Elemental Fire, Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell increases the amount of time that a wooden object will burn before being 
consumed. Wood that is enchanted in this manner burns brightly without being consumed 
for the duration of the spell. When the spell ends, the wooden object crumbles to ash.
This spell does not cause the wood to catch fire; it must be ignited normally. While it 
burns, the wood gives off twice the normal amount of heat; thus, a single log can make a 
cozy fire.
The affected wood radiates magic. The priest may enchant up to 1 cubic foot of wood 
per level of experience. The spell is effective on torches. 

 Magical Stone
(Enchantment)
Sphere: Combat
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 3 pebbles Saving Throw: None
By using this spell, the priest can temporarily enchant up to three small pebbles, no
larger than sling bullets. The magical stones can then be hurled or slung at an opponent.
If hurled, they can be thrown up to 30 yards, and all three can be thrown in one round.
The character using them must roll normally to hit, although the magic of the stones
enables any character to be proficient with them. The stones are considered +1 weapons
for determining if a creature can be struck (those struck only by magical weapons, for
instance), although they do not have an attack or damage bonus. Each stone that hits
inflicts 1d4 points of damage (2d4 points against undead). The magic in each stone lasts
only for half an hour, or until used.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and three small pebbles,
unworked by tools or magic of any type.

 Mistaken Missive (Alteration) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One page/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell alters the appearance of words written in ink. When the spell is cast upon a 
written page, the ink imperceptibly begins to move. Over the next few days, the message 
becomes progressively more illegible. If the page is left undisturbed for six days, an 
entirely new message forms on the page. The new message is completely legible and is 
recognizable as the handwriting of the original author, but is contrary in content to the 
original message.
After the spell is cast, the message will appear different every day. The DM decides 
the message that the page will carry after the sixth day has passed. Following is a sample 
of the changes that could take place in a message.
Day One: The words of the letter appear faint, as if the author of the letter was 
running out of ink as he wrote.
Day Two: The words have moved slightly from their original positions, as if the 
person writing the letter were shaking or in a moving carriage when the letter was 
written.
Days Three and Four: The message is gibberish. Although the ink forms groups of 
letters arranged in lines with punctuation, nearly all the words are meaningless. This may 
appear to be some sort of code, but it means nothing.
Day Five: The ink has formed real words. However, the sentence construction is still 
meaningless (e.g., Egg west worse green!).
Day Six (and beyond): The message is coherent, but the opposite intent of the original 
message has been created. If the original letter read, "Send troops quickly," the new letter 
reads, "All is fine. Keep your men in reserve."
If mistaken missive is cast on the pages of a spellbook or a scroll, the ink on the page 
reforms into a new spell of the same level as the original spell. Thus, a darkness spell 
might become a maze spell. However, the spell formula will be wrong. Although it will 
look like a proper spell, it will not function when cast.
A coded message that is subjected to mistaken missive will appear as a coded message 
on the sixth day but will hold a different meaning than the original message.
A glass of preserved words will allow the original message to be read correctly. 
Dispel magic will restore the message to its original form.
The material component is three drops of ink. 

 Morale (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: War
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: One unit up to 200 individuals
Saving Throw: None
This spell can be used in two distinct ways. The first is appropriate for battlefield use. 
The priest can cast this spell on any unit within 240 yards in an uninterrupted line of 
sight. The casting time for this use is one turn and the material component is a gem of at 
least 100 gp value which is consumed during the casting.
At the conclusion of this use of the spell, the target unit's morale is modified by 1, 
either positively or negatively, as the caster desires. This modification remains in effect 
for 1d4+2 turns.
The second and more powerful use of the spell requires lengthy preparations. Casting 
must take place inside or within 100 yards of a place of worship dedicated to the casting 
priest's deity. Both the priest and the unit to be affected must be present. The casting time 
for this use is 5 turns. The material component is the priest's holy symbol. 
At the conclusion of this use of the spell, the unit's morale is raised by 3 (maximum 
of 19). This morale increase lasts until the next sunset. Only priests of 10th level or 
higher can cast this version of the spell.  

 Pass Without Trace
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the recipient can move through any type of terrain--mud, snow,
dust, etc.--and leave neither footprints nor scent. The area that is passed over radiates
magic for 1d6 turns after the affected creature passes. Thus, tracking a person or other
creature covered by this spell is impossible by normal means. Of course, intelligent
tracking techniques, such as using a spiral search pattern, can result in the trackers
picking up the trail at a point where the spell has worn off.
The material component of this spell is a sprig of pine or evergreen, which must be
burned and the ashes powdered and scattered when the spell is cast.

 Personal Reading (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None 
This spell allows the priest to mathematically analyze personal information about one 
human or demihuman character and learn valuable facts about that character. To cast this 
spell, the priest must know the subject's real name (the name the subject was given as a 
child) or the date and place of the character's birth. The priest analyzes this information 
and is able to build a rough picture of the character's life history and personal specifics. 
The "historical" information discovered through this spell is generally vague. For 
example, the priest might learn that the subject was born in the woods and moved to the 
city only after hardship made his life untenable. Specific information is up to the DM. 
The DM might provide some or all of the following information.
• The subject's character class or career 
 The subject's approximate level (stated in terms such as "novice," "highly skilled," 
"moderately competent," etc.) 
• The subject's standing in the community ("highly respected," "mistrusted," 
 "considered an enigma," etc.) 
• The subject's success or failure in his profession 
• The subject's prevailing character traits or mannerisms 
If the priest casts the spell based on an alias or incorrect birth information, the reading 
will be inaccurate. The DM should develop a history and personality at odds with the 
truth. This might allow the priest to determine whether the name of the subject is correct-
-a reading giving information that conflicts with what the priest already knows should be 
a clue that the name is incorrect.
The subject need not be present during the casting. The priest can cast the spell 
without ever having met the subject.
The material component is a small book of numerological formulae and notes 
(different from the book used in telethaumaturgy). The book is not consumed in the 
casting.
A DM may rule that this spell can be cast on humanoids or monstrous creatures. The 
information available will be similar (considering that words like "profession" will mean 
something different when applied to an ogre). This spell will categorically fail on 
creatures that have no concept of a personal name. 

 Protection From Evil
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, it creates a magical barrier around the recipient at a distance of
1 foot. The barrier moves with the recipient and has three major effects:
First, all attacks made by evil or evilly enchanted creatures against the protected
creature receive a penalty of -2 to each attack roll, and any saving throws caused by such
attacks are made by the protected creature with a +2 bonus.
Second, any attempt to exercise mental control over the protected creature (if, for
example, it has been charmed by a vampire) or to invade and take over its mind (as by a
ghost's magic jar attack) is blocked by this spell. Note that the protection does not prevent
a vampire's charm itself, nor end it, but it does prevent the vampire from exercising
mental control through the barrier. Likewise, an outside life force is merely kept out, and
would not be expelled if in place before the protection was cast.
Third, the spell prevents bodily contact by creatures of an extraplanar or conjured
nature (such as aerial servants, elementals, imps, invisible stalkers, salamanders, water
weirds, xorn, and others). This causes the natural (body) weapon attacks of such creatures
to fail and the creature to recoil if such attacks require touching the protected creature.
Animals or monsters summoned or conjured by spells or similar magic are likewise
hedged from the character. This protection ends if the protected character makes a melee
attack against or tries to force the barrier against the blocked creature.
To complete this spell, the priest uses holy water or burning incense.
This spell can be reversed to become protection from good, with the second and third
benefits remaining unchanged.
The material components for the reverse are a circle of unholy water or smoldering
dung.

 Puffball (Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rounds/level of caster
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 mushroom, etc.
Saving Throw: Special
A character who casts puffball on a normal mushroom, truffle, or toadstool (up to 6 
inches in diameter) transforms the fungus into a magical puffball, which the character 
may drop or throw. The DM should decide what type of roll, if any, is required to hit the 
target (Strength, Dexterity, etc.) See the DMG, pgs. 62-63, for rules on grenadelike 
missiles.
 The puffball bursts upon landing, releasing a cloud of spores 10 feet in diameter. 
Those caught in the spore cloud must save vs. poison or suffer an attack of coughing and 
choking. Victims can make no attacks and lose all Dexterity bonuses to Armor Class and 
saving throws. The cloud dissipates in 1d3+1 rounds; residual effects still afflict 
characters one round after they escape the cloud or it fades.The spell's effects do not
 affect undead or similar nonbreathing creatures. If no one 
throws (or drops) the missile by the time its duration expires, the enchantment is lost.
The caster sprinkles the material component--a pinch of ground puffball--over the 
fungus to be enchanted.

 Purify Food & Drink
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: All
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level, Saving Throw: None
in 10 sq. ft.
When cast, this spell makes spoiled, rotten, poisonous, or otherwise contaminated food
and water pure and suitable for eating and drinking. Up to 1 cubic foot of food and drink
per level can be thus made suitable for consumption. This spell does not prevent
subsequent natural decay or spoilage. Unholy water and similar food and drink of
significance is spoiled by purify food and drink, but the spell has no effect on creatures of
any type nor upon magical potions.
The reverse of the spell is putrefy food and drink. This spoils even holy water;
however, it likewise has no effect upon creatures or potions.

 Ring of Hands (Abjuration) Reversible 
Sphere: Protection
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 2d10 rounds
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This is a cooperative magic spell. It requires a minimum of two priests and can 
accommodate a maximum of ten. Each priest must cast ring of hands on the same round. 
At the end of the casting, the priests involved join hands, thus completing the spell. If any 
priest breaks the circle, the spell immediately ceases. The priests may not move from 
their locations but are free to speak. They may not cast spells requiring a somatic or 
material component while the ring is formed.
The ring of hands forms a protective barrier around the priests and everything within 
their circle. For each priest, assume a five-foot circumference of the circle; thus, three 
priests would create a circle of 15-foot circumference. For easy calculation, assume that 
for each priest, the circle can accommodate four persons.
The barrier functions as a protection from evil spell. Attacks by evil creatures suffer a 
-1 penalty for every priest forming the circle. Saving throws made by the priests or 
anyone in the circle against attacks from such creatures receive a +1 bonus for every 
priest in the circle.
Attempts at mental control over protected creatures are blocked. Extraplanar and 
conjured creatures are unable to touch the priests and those within the circle, although 
melee attacks against such creatures by those within the ring break the barrier.
Because the priests casting the spell cannot move and must hold hands, they do not 
receive any Dexterity bonuses to Armor Class. Furthermore, opponents gain a +2 bonus 
on attack rolls against the priests, since there is little they can do to avoid a blow. 
Creatures within the ring are free to act as they wish. Melee attacks by those within the 
ring are limited to piercing weapons and suffer a -1 penalty to attack rolls since the 
priests intervene.
The reverse of this spell, ring of woe, functions as detailed above except the effect 
applies to good creatures as would a protection from good spell. 

 Remove Fear
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Charm
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature/4 levels Saving Throw: Special
The priest casting this spell instills courage in the spell recipient, raising the creature's
saving throw rolls against magical fear attacks by +4 for one turn. If the recipient has
recently (that day) failed a saving throw against such an attack, the spell immediately
grants another saving throw, with a +4 bonus to the die roll. For every four levels of the
caster, one creature can be affected by the spell (one creature at levels 1 through 4, two
creatures at levels 5 through 8, etc.).
The reverse of the spell, cause fear, causes one creature to flee in panic at maximum
movement speed away from the caster for 1d4 rounds. A successful saving throw against
the reversed effect negates it, and any Wisdom adjustment also applies. Of course, cause
fear can be automatically countered by remove fear and vice versa.
Neither spell has any effect on undead of any sort.

 Sacred Guardian (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Guardian
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: None
By use of this spell, a priest becomes instantly aware when the recipient of the spell is 
in danger, regardless of the distance between the priest and the recipient. The recipient 
may be on a different plane of existence than the priest.
When this spell is cast by a priest of at least 3rd level, he receives a mental image of 
the endangered person's situation. At no time, however, does the priest know the person's 
location through the use of this spell.
The material component is a rose petal that has been kissed by the spell recipient. 

 Sanctuary
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When the priest casts a sanctuary spell, any opponent attempting to strike or otherwise
directly attack the protected creature must roll a saving throw vs. spell. If the saving
throw is successful, the opponent can attack normally and is unaffected by that casting of
the spell. If the saving throw is failed, the opponent loses track of and totally ignores the
warded creature for the duration of the spell. Those not attempting to attack the subject
remain unaffected. Note that this spell does not prevent the operation of area attacks
(fireball, ice storm, etc.). While protected by this spell, the subject cannot take direct
offensive action without breaking the spell, but may use nonattack spells or otherwise act
in any way that does not violate the prohibition against offensive action. This allows a
warded priest to heal wounds, for example, or to bless, perform an augury, chant, cast a
light in the area (but not upon an opponent), and so on.
The components of the spell include the priest's holy symbol and a small silver mirror.

 Shillelagh
(Alteration)
Sphere: Combat, Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 oak club Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to change his own oak cudgel or unshod staff into a
magical weapon that gains a +1 bonus to its attack roll and inflicts 2d4 points of damage
on opponents up to man size, and 1d4+1 points of damage on larger opponents. The spell
inflicts no damage to the staff or cudgel. The caster must wield the shillelagh, of course.
The material components of this spell are a shamrock leaf and the caster's holy symbol.

Speak With Astral Traveler (Alteration) 
Sphere: Astral
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
When a priest casts the 7th-level astral spell, he leaves his physical body in 
suspended animation while his astral body travels. By touching the comatose body and 
casting speak with astral traveler, a priest can mentally communicate with the projected 
individual. Although communication is mental, it takes the same amount of time as a 
normal, verbal dialogue. The spell ends abruptly when its duration expires. 

 Thought Capture (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10 yards
Saving Throw: None
One of the more bizarre contentions held by priests of the School of Thought is 
generally scoffed at by outsiders. The theory states that once a thought has occurred in 
someone's brain, it exists as a "freestanding mental object." This "thought object" usually 
remains inside the brain of the creature that created it, but sometimes it escapes (this 
supposedly explains why people forget things). When this happens, the thought object 
stays in the geographical area where it was lost. Any receptive brain (usually the brain of 
the creature that initially created the thought) can pick it up again simply by bumping into 
the invisible, free-floating thought. According to the theory, this is the reason that people 
can regain a lost thought by going back to the location where the thought was lost. This 
supposedly works because the free-floating thought is recaptured, not because the locale 
reminds them of the thought. Unfortunately for philosophers who disagree with this, 
thought capture seems to be extremely strong evidence for this theory.
This spell makes the priest's brain something of a magnet that attracts thought objects 
in close proximity. The priest can sense strong thoughts and emotions and can sometimes 
even see momentary visions of creatures who died or suffered some powerful emotion in 
the immediate vicinity. Thought objects are always attracted to the priest in the order of 
the strongest (those attached to powerful emotions or significant events) to the weakest. 
Thus, if several thought objects share the same vicinity, the priest will perceive 
information about the most interesting or significant event. The priest might pick up 
images of a battle from the point of view of a warrior who died there, or he might gain 
information about the victor of the battle.
The DM dictates the information provided to the priest, and thus can use this spell to 
provide players with important background information or can add texture to a campaign 
world. The information provided might be highly cryptic or symbolic, perhaps in the 
form of a rhyme or riddle.
 The priest gains one thought object per casting of the spell. The spell may be cast a 
number of times in the same locale, with the priest gaining a different thought object with 
each casting. A locale contains a finite number of thoughts, however, and once the priest 
has gained all of them (per the DM), the spell will fail in that locale. 

 Weighty Chest (Alteration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 5-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to enchant a chest, book, package, or any other nonliving 
object no larger than a 5'x5'x5' cube. When the enchanted object is touched by anyone 
other than the caster, the apparent weight of the object increases, becoming 2-5 (1d4+1) 
times the weight of the person or persons touching it. This condition makes the object 
extremely difficult to move for anyone but the caster. The caster can move the object 
normally throughout the duration of the spell.
The material component is a lead ball. 

 Whisperward (Alteration)
Sphere: Guardian, Weather
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent until triggered
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 item
Saving Throw: None
Whisperward can be cast on any single item, portal, or closure (such as a book, door, 
or lid). It may ward up to a 30-foot radius.
The character keys the ward to become activated (like a magic mouth spell) under 
specific conditions--such as when a certain individual enters the area or opens the warded 
closure. When the ward is triggered, a soft whispering breeze blows across the caster's 
face. The caster must stay within 1 mile per experience level of the ward to receive the 
warning.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.

