Spells work file Tier 6

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

Sixth-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 6 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Arrow of Bone
(Necromancy, Artifice)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 missile Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: Varies
Sensory: Small visual/tactile Critical: Medium (1 hit) 
 impact
By drawing runes of dire power upon a simple arrow, bolt, dart, or javelin, the 
caster changes the weapon into a sinister missile of cold, enchanted bone. The wizard 
may then throw or fire the weapon in the normal fashion, or he can choose to give it to a 
companion to use. If the wizard employs the arrow of bone himself, he strikes with the 
THAC0 of a warrior of half his own level and a +3 bonus to his attack roll; if he gives it 
to someone else, the bone arrow merely confers a +1 bonus to hit. A creature struck by 
the weapon must make a saving throw vs. death magic or die; even if successful, the 
victim sustains normal damage for the missile, plus an additional number of points equal 
to the weapon’s maximum damage (for example, 1d6+6 for an arrow or javelin, or 1d3+3 
for a dart). Unlike the death spell or finger of death, the victim can be raised or 
resurrected in any expedient manner.
The arrow of bone does not destroy undead or nonliving creatures outright. 
Instead, the arrow inflicts normal damage plus four times the missile’s normal maximum 
(1d6+24 for an arrow, 1d3+12 for a dart, and so on), or half that if the subject creature 
succeeds in its saving throw.
The material component is a powdered sliver of bone mixed with black dragon 
blood. The resulting mixture is used to paint runes on the weapon. If the splinter of bone 
can be taken from the remains of a close blood relative of the subject (a sibling, parent, or 
grandparent), the victim receives a –4 penalty on his or her saving throw if struck by the 
arrow of bone.

 Antimagic Shell
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 ft./level diameter Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard surrounds himself with an invisible barrier that
moves with him. The space within this barrier is totally impervious to all magic and
magical spell effects, thus preventing the passage of spells or their effects. Likewise, it
prevents the functioning of any magical items or spells within its confines. The area is
also impervious to breath weapons, gaze or voice attacks, and similar special attack
forms.
The antimagic shell also hedges out charmed, summoned, or conjured creatures. It
cannot, however, be forced against any creature that it would keep at bay; any attempt to
do so creates a discernible pressure against the barrier, and continued pressure will break
the spell. Normal creatures (a normally encountered troll rather than a conjured one, for
instance) can enter the area, as can normal missiles. Furthermore, while a magical sword
does not function magically within the area, it is still a sword. Note that creatures on their
home plane are normal creatures there. Thus, on the Elemental Plane of Fire, a randomly
encountered fire elemental cannot be kept at bay by this spell. Artifacts, relics, and
creatures of demigod or higher status are unaffected by mortal magic such as this.
Should the caster be larger than the area enclosed by the barrier, parts of his person
may be considered exposed, at the DM's option. A dispel magic spell does not remove the
spell; the caster can end it upon command.

 Augmentation II (Evocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 turns
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell functions exactly like the 3rd-level augmentation I spell except that five 
spells of levels 1-3 may be affected. For each die of damage caused by augmented spells, 
one hit point is added to the damage total.
Augmentation II affects the first five spells which cause direct damage that are cast 
within the duration of the augmentation II spell. Only spells that cause direct physical 
damage are affected by this spell.
The material component is a pair of concentric circles of gold or platinum. 

 Blackmantle (Necromancy, Enchantment) 
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 15-foot radius
Saving Throw: Neg
. 
Blackmantle creates a shimmering aura around all creatures within the affected area 
that negates all healing and regeneration, both natural and magical. For instance, a potion 
of healing has no effect on a creature under the influence of blackmantle, a troll cannot 
regenerate lost hit points, and cure light wounds is useless. 
Blackmantle is negated for any target creatures who make successful saving throws. 
Otherwise, it persists for 1 turn per level of the caster. If the creatures are still alive at the 
end of the spell's duration, any active curative forces will operate normally; for instance, 
a ring of regeneration will resume its function. However, consuming a potion of healing
or applying a staff of curing while blackmantle is in effect will have no affect when 
blackmantle wears off, since these types of magic work instantly. In such cases, the dose 
of potion of healing and the charge from a staff of curing are not only wasted, but the 
aura generated by blackmantle actually negates the potion of healing or the staff of 
curing, rendering it useless. If a potion of healing or staff of healing is applied after the 
spell wears off, the healing magic works normally. 
The material component for this spell is a small mummified animal, such as a mouse 
or a toad

 Bloodstone's Spectral Steed (Necromancy) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a wizard to create a quasi-real, vulturelike creature. The flying steed 
can carry the caster and one other person per three levels of the wizard's experience (four 
at 12th level, five at 15th, etc.). All passengers must be specifically named during the 
casting.
The spectral steed looks like a huge, skeletal vulture with tattered wings. As it flies, it 
utters hideous screeches that echo through the sky. The spectral steed flies at a movement 
rate of 4 per level of the caster, to a maximum movement rate of 48. It appears with a bit 
and bridle, plus one saddle per passenger.
All normal animals shun the spectral steed and only monsters will attack it.
 The mount has AC 2 and 10 hit points plus 1 hit point per level of the caster. If it loses all of 
its hit points, the spectral steed disappears. It has no attack mode.
The material component is a hollow bone from a vulture's wing, which must be 
carved into a whistle and blown when the spell is cast.

 Bigby's Forceful Hand
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Bigby's forceful hand is a more powerful version of Bigby's interposing hand. It creates
a man-sized (5 feet) to gargantuan-sized (21 feet) hand that places itself between the
spellcaster and a chosen opponent. This disembodied hand then moves to remain between
the two, regardless of what the spellcaster does or how the opponent tries to get around it.
However, the forceful hand also pushes on the opponent. This force can push away a
creature weighing 500 pounds or less, slow movement to 10 feet per round if the creature
weighs between 500 and 2,000 pounds, or slow movement by 50% if the creature weighs
more than 2,000 pounds.
A creature pushed away is pushed to the range limit, or until pressed against an
unyielding surface. The hand itself inflicts no damage. The forceful hand has an Armor
Class of 0, has as many hit points as its caster in full health, and vanishes when
destroyed. The caster can cause it to retreat (to release a trapped opponent, for example)
or dismiss it on command.
The material component is a glove.

 Chain Lightning
(Evocation)
Range: 40 yds. + 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: _
This spell creates an electrical discharge that begins as a single stroke of lightning, 2_
feet wide, commencing from the fingertips of the caster. Unlike a lightning bolt spell,
chain lightning strikes one object or creature initially, then arcs to a series of other objects
or creatures within range, losing energy with each jump.
The bolt initially inflicts 1d6 points of damage per level of the caster, to a maximum of
12d6 (half damage if the object or creature rolls a successful saving throw vs. spell).
After the first strike, the lightning arcs to the next nearest object or creature. Each jump
reduces the strength of the lightning by 1d6. Each creature or magical object hit receives
a saving throw vs. spell. Success on this save indicates the creature suffers only half
damage from the bolt.
The chain can strike as many times (including the first object or creature) as the
spellcaster has levels, although each creature or object can be struck only once. Thus, a
bolt cast by a 12th-level wizard can strike up to 12 times, causing less damage with each
strike. The bolt continues to arc until it has struck the appropriate number of objects or
creatures, until it strikes an object that grounds it (interconnecting iron bars of a large cell
or cage, a large pool of liquid, etc.), or until there are no more objects or creatures to
strike.
Direction is not a consideration when plotting chain lightning arcs. Distance is a factor-
-an arc cannot exceed the spell's range. If the only possible arc is greater than the spell's
range, the stroke fades into nothingness. Creatures immune to electrical attack can be 
struck, even though no damage is taken. Note that it is possible for the chain to arc back
to the caster!
The material components are a bit of fur, a piece of amber, glass, or crystal rod, and
one silver pin for each experience level of the caster.

 Claws of the Umber Hulk (Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the subject's hands widen and his fingernails thicken and 
grow, becoming equivalent in size and power to the iron-like claws of an umber hulk. 
The transformation takes one full round and is excruciatingly painful, requiring a system 
shock roll. A failed roll causes the subject to suffer 3d4 points of damage.
The subject can burrow as an umber hulk, cutting through 10 feet of solid stone or 60 
feet of soil per turn. The only limitation to this is the subject's stamina; at the end of each 
turn of burrowing, the subject must succeed a Constitution check or be forced to rest for 
one turn.
Burrowing through soil does not necessarily create a passable tunnel. If the subject 
wishes to make a passage in which others can travel or that he can exit when the spell 
ends, he must dig at a rate of 30 feet per turn. Cutting a tunnel through solid rock does 
not require extra care or time.
The recipient of this spell can make two claw attacks per round, each inflicting 2d6 
points of damage plus any Strength bonuses. Each attack is made with a -2 penalty to hit. 
This penalty applies until the subject has made two successful consecutive attacks (not 
necessarily in the same round), at which time he is accustomed to using the claws. The 
penalty is dropped for the remainder of the spell.
The material component is an umber hulk's claw. 

 Command Monster
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 60 yds. Components: V
Duration: 1 rd./2 levels Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +1 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small audio Critical: None
This spell allows the priest to issue a command to any one creature within the 
spell’s range. The magic of the spell translates the priest’s order into a language or form 
the subject creature can understand. The creature must have an Intelligence of at least 1 in 
order to be affected by this spell; nonintelligent creatures (those with a score of 0) cannot 
comprehend any order, no matter how the priest phrases it. Other creatures gain a saving 
throw vs. spell to resist command monster, but only if they have an Intelligence of 
Exceptional (15) or better, or the creature’s levels or Hit Dice are equal to or greater than 
the caster’s.
Just like the 1st-level spell command, this spell coerces the subject into obeying 
the priest’s one-word order to the best of its ability. The order must be absolutely clear 
and unequivocal; the subject will continue to obey for one round per two caster levels—
six rounds at 12th level, seven at 14th, and so on. If this action places the subject in 
mortal peril, he may attempt a saving throw (whether he was originally entitled to one or 
not) in order to break free of the spell’s power. Therefore, ordering a character standing 
at the edge of a cliff to “jump” will create an opportunity for the subject to break free. A 
command to “die” or “sleep” renders the creature unconscious for the spell’s duration.
Undead creatures are immune to this spell.

 Conjure Animals
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 30 yds. radius Saving Throw: None
The conjure animals spell enables the wizard to magically create one or more
mammals to attack his opponents. The total Hit Dice of the mammals cannot exceed
twice his level, if determined randomly, or his level if a specific animal type is requested
(see the Dungeon Master Guide). Thus, a wizard of 12th level could randomly conjure
two mammals with 12 Hit Dice, four with 6 Hit Dice each, six with 4 Hit Dice each, eight
with 3 Hit Dice each, twelve with 2 Hit Dice each, or 24 with 1 Hit Die each. Count
every +1 hit point bonus of a creature as _ of a Hit Die; thus, a creature with 4+3 Hit Dice
equals a 4 _ Hit Dice creature. The conjured animal(s) remain for one round for each
level of the conjuring wizard, or until slain. They follow the caster's verbal commands.
Conjured animals unfailingly attack the wizard's opponents, but they resist being used for
any other purpose.

 Contingency
(Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to place another spell upon his person so that
the latter spell will come into effect under the conditions dictated during the casting of
the contingency spell. The contingency spell and the spell it is to bring into effect are cast
at the same time (the one-turn casting time indicated is the total for both castings).
The spell to be brought into effect by the prescribed contingency must be one that
affects the wizard's person (feather fall, levitation, fly, feign death, etc.) and be of a spell
level no higher than 1/3 of the caster's experience level (rounded down), but not higher
than the 6th spell level.

 Caster Level | Contingency Spell Level
12-14         |     4th
15-17         |     5th
 18+          |     6th
Only one contingency spell can be placed on the spellcaster at any one time; if a 
second is cast, the first one (if still active) is cancelled. The conditions needed to bring
the spell into effect must be clear, although they can be rather general. For example, a
contingency spell cast with an airy water spell might prescribe that any time the wizard is
plunged into or otherwise engulfed in water or similar liquid, the airy water spell will
instantly come into effect. Or a contingency could bring a feather fall spell into effect any
time the wizard falls more than 2 feet. In all cases, the contingency immediately brings
into effect the second spell, the latter being "cast" instantaneously when the prescribed
circumstances occur. Note that if complicated or convoluted conditions are prescribed,
the whole spell complex (the contingency spell and the companion magic) may fail when
called upon.
The material components of this spell are (in addition to those of the companion spell)
100 gp worth of quicksilver and an eyelash of an ogre mage, ki-rin, or similar spell-using
creature. In addition, the spell requires a statuette of the wizard carved from elephant
ivory (which is not destroyed, though it is subject to wear and tear), which must be
carried on the person of the spellcaster for the contingency spell to perform its function
when called upon.

 Control Weather
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4d6 hrs. Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 4d4 sq. mi. Saving Throw: None
The control weather spell enables a wizard to change the weather in the local area. The
spell affects the weather for 4d6 hours in an area of 4d4 square miles. It requires one turn
to cast the spell, and an additional 1d4 turns for the weather conditions to occur. The
current weather conditions are decided by the DM, depending on the climate and season.
Weather conditions have three components: precipitation, temperature, and wind. The
spell can change these conditions according to the following chart.
The upper-cased headings represent the existing weather conditions. The small
headings beneath each large heading are the new conditions to which the caster can
change the existing conditions. Furthermore, the caster can control the direction of the
wind. For example, a day that is clear and warm with moderate wind can be controlled to
become hazy, hot, and calm. Contradictions are not possible--fog and strong wind, for
example. Multiple control weather spells can be used only in succession.
The material components for this spell are burning incense and bits of earth and wood
mixed in water. Obviously, this spell functions only in areas where there are appropriate
climatic conditions.

Precipitation               |   Temperature    |    Wind           |
CLEAR WEATHER               |     HOT          |    CALM           |
 Very clear                 | Sweltering heat  |  Dead calm        |
 Light clouds or hazy       | Warm             | Light wind        |
PARTLY CLOUDY               | WARM             | Moderate wind     |
 Clear weather              | Hot              | MODERATE WIND     |
Cloudy                      | Cool             | Calm              |
 Mist/light rain/small hail | COOL             | Strong wind       |
 Sleet/light snow           | Warm             | STRONG WIND       |
CLOUDY                      | Cold             | Moderate wind     |
 Partly cloudy              | COLD             | Gale              |
 Deep clouds                | Cool             | GALE              |
 Fog Arctic                 | cold             | Strong wind       |
 Heavy rain/large hail      |                  | Storm             |
Driving sleet/heavy snow    |                  | STORM             |
                            |                  | Gale              |
                            |                  | Hurricane-typhoon |

 Dead Man's Eyes (Necromancy) 
Range: Special
Components: S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
Dead Man's Eyes causes the whites of the caster's eyes to turn black and his pupils to 
reshape themselves into small white skulls. The caster can affect one victim per round, 
providing the victim is within 3 feet of the caster and meets his gaze. Victims are affected 
as follows:
· Victims with 2 Hit Dice or fewer (or victims of level 2 or lower) instantly die. No 
saving throw is allowed. 
· Victims with 2+ to 5 Hit Dice (or victims of level 3-5) instantly die unless they 
save vs. death magic at a -2 penalty. Those who succeed in their saving throws 
suffer 2-12 (2d6) hit points. 
· Victims with 5+ Hit Dice or more (or victims of level 6 or greater) suffer 2-12 
(2d6) hit points of damage unless they save vs. death magic. 
If the caster's gaze is reflected back on him (by a mirror, calm water, etc.), he must 
make a saving throw vs. spells or suffer the same effects as a 5+ Hit Dice victim. At the 
end of the spell's duration, there is a 5 percent chance that the caster will become blind 
for the next 5-10 (1d6 + 4 hours). 
The material components for this spell are two eyeball-sized glass marbles. The 
marbles must be the same color as the caster's eyes

 Death Fog
(Alteration, Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rds. + 1/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Two 10-ft. cubes/level Saving Throw: None
The casting of a death fog spell creates an area of solid fog that has the additional
property of being highly acidic. The vapors are deadly to living things, so that vegetation
exposed to them will die--grass and similar small plants in two rounds, bushes and shrubs
in four, small trees in eight, and large trees in 16 rounds. Animal life not immune to acid
suffers damage according to the length of time it is exposed to the vapors of a death fog,
as follows:

1st round: 1 point
2nd round: 2 points
3rd round: 4 points
4th and each succeeding round: 8 points

The death fog otherwise resembles the 2nd-level fog cloud spell: rolling, billowing
vapors that can be moved only by a very strong wind. Any creature attempting to move
through the death fog progresses at a rate of 1 foot per unit of normal movement rate per
round. A gust of wind spell cannot affect it, but a fireball, flame strike, or wall of fire can
burn it away in a single round.
The material components are a pinch of dried and powdered peas, powdered animal
hoof, and strong acid of any sort (including highly distilled vinegar or acid crystals),
which must be obtained from an alchemist.

 Death Spell
(Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
When a death spell is cast, it snuffs out the life forces of creatures in the area of effect
instantly and irrevocably. Such creatures cannot be raised or resurrected, but an
individual slain in this manner might be brought back via a wish. The number of creatures
that can be slain is a function of their Hit Dice.

                    |   Maximum # of     |
Creatures' Hit Dice | Creatures Affected |
Under 2             |    4d20            |
2 to 4              |    2d20            |
4+1 to 6+3          |    2d4             |
6+4 to 8+3          |    1d4             |

If creatures of differing Hit Dice are attacked with a death spell, roll the dice (4d20) to
determine how many creatures of under 2 Hit Dice are affected. If the number rolled is
greater than the actual number of sub-2 Hit Dice creatures, apply the remainder of the roll
to the higher Hit Dice creatures by consulting the following table.

Creatures' Hit Dice | Conversion Factor (CF) |
Under 2             | 1                      |
2 to 4              | 2                      |
4+1 to 6+3          | 10                     |
6+4 to 8+3          | 20                     |

In other words, from the 4d20 roll subtract the number of creatures of less than 2 Hit
Dice (these creatures die). If there are any remaining points from the 4d20 roll, subtract 2
for each creature of 2 to 4 Hit Dice (these creatures also die). If this still doesn't use up all
the 4d20 roll, subtract 10 for each creature of 4+1 to 6+3 Hit Dice, and so on. Stop when
all the creatures are dead, all the 4d20 roll is used up, or the remainder is less than half
the CF of any remaining creatures. (If the remainder is one-half or more of the CF of a
creature, that creature dies.)
For example, a mixed group of 20 goblins, eight gnolls, and four ogres, led by a hill
giant, are caught in the area of a death spell. The 4d20 roll gives a total of 53 points; 20
of this eliminates the goblins (20 x 1 CF), 16 kills the gnolls (8 x 2 CF), and the
remaining 17 kills two ogres (10 points to kill one ogre, and the remaining 7 points are
enough to kill one more ogre). The other two ogres and the hill giant are unharmed.
A death spell does not affect lycanthropes, undead creatures, or creatures from planes
other than the Prime Material.
The material component of this spell is a crushed black pearl with a minimum value of
1,000 gp.

 Demishadow Magic
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
This spell is similar to the 5th-level shadow magic spell, but this spell enables the
casting of partially real 4th- and 5th level evocations (cone of cold, wall of fire, wall of
ice, cloudkill, etc.). If recognized as demishadow magic (if a saving throw vs. spell is
successful), damaging spells inflict only 40% of normal damage, with a minimum of 2
points per die of damage. A demishadow magic cloudkill slays creatures with fewer than
2 Hit Dice and inflicts 1d2 points of damage per round.

 Dilation II (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell functions exactly like the 4th-level dilation I spell, except that the area of 
effect of a 1st-, 2nd-, or 3rd- level spell is extended by 50%. Alternatively, the wizard 
may extend the area of effect of one 4th- or 5th-level spell by 25%. 

 Dimensional Blade
(Invocation/Evocation, Dimension, Artifice)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: Moderate (1 hit) slashing
This spell makes a single weapon incredibly sharp by reducing one of its physical 
dimensions to an infinitesimal measurement. The dimensional blade can slash through 
matter with as much effort as it takes to wave a stick through the air. Even stone and iron 
can be carved to pieces with ease. The spell can be cast on almost any hand-held slashing 
(type S) weapon, as well as a few thrown weapons of this type, such as the chakram, 
shuriken, or a hand axe.
Against creatures, the dimensional blade ignores any portion of Armor Class 
derived from armor itself; only magical and Dexterity adjustments affect the opponent’s 
AC. For example, a warrior in chain mail +2 with a Dexterity of 17 is normally AC 0, 
but against the dimensional blade he only applies the 3-point adjustment for Dexterity 
and the 2-point magical adjustment, for a total AC of 5. Creatures wearing purely magical 
armor (such as bracers of defense) may keep the full magical adjustment. Monsters with 
thick or toughened hides, such as dragons, may lose part of the Armor Class at the DM’s 
discretion. The weapon gains a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls in any event, but the 
wielder ignores any Strength-based combat adjustments—muscle power doesn’t help the 
blade at all.
The dimensional blade is also quite effective against inanimate objects. Any 
object with a diameter or thickness smaller than the blade’s length must make a saving 
throw vs. disintegration when struck, or be cleanly severed in twain. Larger objects can 
be sawed through or sliced away at the rate of about 5 cubic feet per round. It’s 
dangerous to attempt to disarm a dimensional blade; the weapon used must make an item 
saving throw vs. disintegration or be destroyed.
Finally, the blade is also effective against phased or ethereal creatures since part 
of its existence is forced into the Ethereal Plane. If the wielder has some way to detect 
creatures concealed in this way, the blade can strike and affect them normally, but 
without the power to negate Armor Class or other combat bonuses.
The wizard must touch the weapon to be affected by the spell, but afterward 
anyone may wield it. The material component for this spell is a razor-thin shard of glass.

 Disintegrate
(Alteration)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature or Saving Throw: Neg.
10 x 10 x 10 ft. cube
This spell causes matter to vanish. It affects even matter (or energy) of a magical
nature, such as Bigby's forceful hand, but not a globe of invulnerability or an antimagic
shell. Disintegration is instantaneous, and its effects are permanent. Any single creature
can be affected, even undead. Nonliving matter, up to a 10-foot x 10-foot x 10-foot cube,
can be obliterated by the spell. The spell creates a thin, green ray that causes physical
material touched to glow and vanish, leaving traces of fine dust. Creatures that
successfully save vs. spell have avoided the ray (material items have resisted the magic)
and are not affected. Only the first creature or object struck can be affected.
The material components are a lodestone and a pinch of dust.

 Dragon Scales (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes the body of the caster (or any single person or creature touched by 
the caster) to become completely covered with dragon scales, effectively raising the 
subject's Armor Class by 2 for the duration of the spell; this modification is in addition to 
the subject's normal AC (for instance, if the subject's AC is 6, dragon scales raises it to 
4). 
The color of the dragon scales is the same as that of the scale used as the spell's 
material component; however, the color has no bearing on the effect of the spell. Dragon 
scales also temporarily reduces the subject's Charisma by 2 points. 
The material component of a spell is a scale from any dragon. 

 Enchant an Item
(Enchantment, Invocation)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: 1 item Saving Throw: Neg.
This is a spell that must be used by a wizard planning to create a magical item. The
enchant an item spell prepares the object to accept the magic. The item must meet the
following tests: 1) it must be in sound and undamaged condition; 2) the item must be the
finest possible, considering its nature, i.e., crafted of the highest quality material and with
the finest workmanship; and 3) its cost or value must reflect the second test, and in most
cases the item must have a raw-materials cost in excess of 100 gp. With respect to
requirement 3, it is not possible to apply this test to items such as ropes, leather goods,
cloth, and pottery not normally embroidered, bejeweled, tooled, carved, or engraved. If
such work or materials can be added to an item without weakening or harming its normal
functions, however, these are required for the item to be enchanted.
The wizard must have access to a workshop or laboratory, properly equipped and from
which contaminating magic can be screened. Any magical item not related to the 
fabrication process (such as most protective devices) and within 30 feet of the materials is
a source of contaminating magic and will spoil the process.
The item to be prepared must be touched by the spellcaster. This touching must be
constant and continual during the casting time, which is a base 16 hours plus an
additional 8d8 hours (as the wizard may never work more than eight hours per day, and
haste or any other spells will not alter the time required in any way, this effectively
means that casting time for this spell is two days + 1d8 days). All work must be
uninterrupted, and during rest periods the item being enchanted must never be more than
1 foot distant from the spellcaster; if it is, the whole spell is spoiled and must be begun
again. (Note that during rest periods absolutely no other form of magic can be performed,
and the wizard must remain quiet and in isolation or the enchantment is ruined.)
At the end of the spell, the caster will know that the item is ready for the final test. He
will then pronounce the final magical syllable, and if the item makes a saving throw
(which is exactly the same as that of the wizard) vs. spell, the spell is completed. The
spellcaster's saving throw bonuses also apply to the item, up to +3. A result of 1 on the
1d20 roll always results in failure, regardless of modifications. Once the spell is finished,
the wizard can begin to place the desired spell upon the item. The spell he plans to place
must be cast within 24 hours or the preparatory spell fades, and the item must be
enchanted again.
Each spell subsequently cast upon an object bearing an enchant an item spell requires
2d4 hours per spell level of the magic being cast. Again, during casting the item must be
touched by the wizard, and during the rest periods it must always be within 1 foot of his
person. This procedure holds true for any additional spells placed upon the item, and each
successive spell must be begun within 24 hours of the last, even if the prior spell failed.
No magic placed on an item is permanent unless a permanency spell is used as a
finishing touch. This always runs a 5% risk of draining 1 point of Constitution from the
wizard casting the spell. Also, while it is possible to tell when the basic spell (enchant an
item) succeeds, it is not possible to tell if successive castings actually work, for each must
make the same sort of saving throw as the item itself made. Naturally, an item that is
charged--a rod, staff, wand, javelin of lightning, ring of wishes, etc.--can never be made
permanent. Magical devices cannot be used to enchant an item or cast magic upon an
object so prepared, but scrolls can be used for this purpose.
The materials needed for this spell vary according to both the nature of the item being
enchanted and the magic to be cast upon it. For example, a cloak of displacement might
require the hides of one or more displacer beasts, a sword meant to slay dragons could
require the blood and some other part of the type(s) of dragon(s) it will be effective
against, and a ring of shooting stars might require pieces of meteorites and the horn of kirin. 
These specifics, as well as other information pertaining to this spell, are decided by
the DM and must be discovered or researched in play.

 Ensnarement
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Neg.
Casting this spell attempts a dangerous act: to lure a powerful creature from another
plane to a specifically prepared trap, where it will be held until it agrees to perform one
service in return for freedom from the ensnarement spell. The type of creature to be
ensnared must be known and stated, and if it has a specific, proper, or given name, this
must be used in casting the ensnarement spell. The spell causes an awareness of a
gatelike opening on the plane of the creature to be ensnared. A special saving throw is
then made to determine if the creature detects the nature of the planar opening as a trap or
believes it to be a gate. To save, the creature must roll equal to or less than its Intelligence
score on 1d20. The score is modified by the difference between the creature's Intelligence
and that of the spellcaster. If the creature has a higher score, the difference is subtracted
from its dice roll to save. If the spellcaster has a higher score, the difference is added to
the dice roll.
If the saving throw succeeds, the creature ignores the spell-created opening, and the
spell fails. If the saving throw fails, the creature steps into the opening and is ensnared.
When so trapped, the other planar creature can freely attack the ensnaring wizard,
unless the caster has created a warding circle. Such circles may be temporary (drawn by
hand) or permanent (inlaid or carved). Even with such protection, the entrapped creature
may break free and wreak its vengeance upon the spellcaster.
A hand-drawn circle has a base failure chance of 20%, while one inlaid or carved has a
base of 10% (and that is for the first time it is used, to determine whether or not the job
was done properly). The base chance is modified by the difference between the wizard's
combined Intelligence and experience level and the Intelligence and the experience level
or Hit Dice of the creature ensnared. If the spellcaster has a higher total, that difference in
percentage points is subtracted from the chance for the creature to break free. If the
creature has a higher total, that difference is added to its chance to break free.
The chance can be further reduced by careful preparation of the circle. 
If the handmade circle is drawn over a longer period of time, using specially prepared pigments
(1,000 gp value per turn spent drawing), the chance of breaking free is reduced by 1% for
every turn spent in preparation. This can bring the base chance to 0%.
Similarly, an inlaid or carved design can be brought to a 0% chance of the creature
breaking free by inlaying with various metals, minerals, etc. This cost will require a
minimum of one full month of time and add not less than 50,000 gp to the basic cost of
having the circle inlaid or carved into stone. Any break in the circle spoils the efficacy of
the spell and enables the creature to break free automatically. Even a straw dropped
across the line of a magic circle destroys its power. Fortunately, the creature within
cannot so much as place a straw upon any portion of the inscribed ward, for the magic of
the barrier absolutely prevents it.
Once safely ensnared, the creature can be kept for as long as the spellcaster dares.
(Remember the danger of something breaking the ward!) The creature cannot leave the
circle, nor can any of its attacks or powers penetrate the barrier. The caster can offer
bribes, use promises, or make threats in order to exact one service from the captive
creature.
The DM will then assign a value to what the wizard has said to the ensnared creature,
rating it from 0 to 6 (with 6 being the most persuasive). This rating is then subtracted
from the Intelligence score of the creature. If the creature rolls a successful Intelligence 
check against its adjusted Intelligence, it refuses service. New offers, bribes, etc., can be
made, or the old ones re-offered 24 hours later, when the creature's Intelligence has
dropped by 1 point due to confinement. This can be repeated until the creature promises
to serve, until it breaks free, or until the caster decides to get rid of it by means of some
riddance spell. Impossible demands or unreasonable commands are never agreed to.
Once the single service is completed, the creature need only so inform the spellcaster
to be instantly sent from whence it came. The creature might later seek revenge.

Entropy Shield
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual/tactile Critical: None
This potent defense surrounds the caster in a chaotic maelstrom of energy and 
demimatter that blocks or deflects many attacks. The entropy shield extends about two 
feet in all directions from the caster’s body. The warping effect of the field causes any 
melee or hand-to-hand attack to miss 50% of the time—even if the roll allows an attack 
to continue, the priest still gains a –2 bonus to his Armor Class. Normal missiles or 
hurled weapons miss automatically as the entropy shield deflects them from the caster. 
Even magical missile attacks (produce flame, magic missile, or Melf’s acid arrow, for 
example), siege engines, and giant-thrown boulders may be deflected as if they were 
hand-to-hand attacks.
Against spells or effects that produce energy, gas, or other physical attack forms 
(fireball, lightning bolt, cloudkill, and other such spells) the entropy shield provides a 
50% chance that the attack simply does not affect the protected priest. Even if the 
harmful energy or matter penetrates the shield, the caster gains a +2 bonus on his saving 
throw. This does not cause a spell to fizzle or fail; a priest standing in the middle of a
fireball is simply not touched by the spell, which will inflict its normal damage on
anyone else in the area of effect. Any spell or effect that does not create matter or energy 
to harm or hinder the victim can pass through the entropy shield normally, so mind-based 
attacks and magical effects such as petrification, paralyzation, enfeeblement, or 
polymorph (to name a few) can still affect the priest.
In addition to its defensive benefits, the entropy shield has the ability to repel 
normal or giant-sized animals and creatures of lawful alignment, such as extraplanar 
monsters from the lawful planes. Any such creature attempting to attack the shielded 
priest in hand-to-hand combat must roll a saving throw vs. spell at the end of the round. If 
the creature fails, it recoils from the priest and cannot attack him physically for the 
remainder of the spell’s duration (although it could decide to turn on one of the priest’s 
companions).
The material component for this spell is a gemstone worth at least 100 gold pieces 
that has been exposed to the chaotic energies of Limbo.

 Etherealness
(Dimension)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature(s) touched Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By means of this spell, the wizard and up to six other creatures joined by linked 
hands become ethereal (along with their equipment). While ethereal, the group need not 
stay together. The group’s presence can be detected only by detect phase, true seeing, or 
similar spells and effects. No physical, or magical attack can affect him, unless his 
assailant is ethereal as well (although some monsters, such as the basilisk, have gaze 
weapons whose power extends into the Ethereal Plane). The spell recipients are actually 
in the Border Ethereal and can still perceive their physical surroundings, but the world 
appears gray, misty, and indistinct to them. Note that as ethereal creatures can perceive 
the physical world here, a character could scout out his surroundings or make good an 
escape from the safety of the Border Ethereal.
The wizard and his companions may remain in the Border Ethereal for up to one 
hour per level; when the spell expires, they return to normal existence, although the 
wizard can choose to end the spell before its full duration. The wizard also has the option 
of moving himself or the group from the Border Ethereal into the Deep Ethereal, in which 
case they remain ethereal when the spell ends. He will have to use this spell again or find 
another way back in order to return to his home plane.
The wizard can attempt to use etherealness to banish an unwilling subject. He 
must make a successful attack roll in order to touch him, and the subject receives a saving 
throw vs. spell to negate the effect. An unwilling subject automatically remains in the 
Border Ethereal for an amount of time specified by the wizard at the time of the casting, 
but no more than one hour per caster level. When used like this, etherealness does not 
affect the caster, only the subject.

 Extension III
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell is the same as the 4th-level extension I spell, except that it will extend 1st through 3rd-level spells to double duration 
and will extend the duration of 4th- or 5th level spells by 50%.

 Eyebite
(Enchantment/Charm, Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/3 levels Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
An eyebite spell enables the caster to merely meet the gaze of a creature and speak a
single word to cause an effect. This gaze attack is in addition to any other attacks allowed
to the wizard. The wizard selects one of four possible gaze attacks at the time the spell is
cast, and this attack cannot be changed. For example, a 12th-level caster who chose fear
would have four opportunities to make gaze attacks causing fear, one for each round of
the spell's duration. Any gaze attack is negated by a successful saving throw vs. spell,
with Wisdom adjustments. The four effects of the spell are as follows:
Charm: The wizard can charm a single person or monster by gaze and by uttering a
single word. The effect is to make the charmed subject absolutely loyal and docile to the
caster, even to the point of personal danger. It is otherwise the same as a charm monster
spell. All creatures other than humans, demihumans, and humanoids save with +2
bonuses.
Fear: The wizard can cause fear by gaze and by speaking a single word. The subject
flees in blind terror for 1d4 rounds. After this, the creature refuses to face the caster and
cowers or bolts for the nearest cover if subsequently confronted by the caster (50%
chance of either). The latter effect lasts one turn per caster level. This attack can be
negated by spells that counter fear.
Sicken: This power enables the caster to merely gaze, speak, a word, and cause sudden
pain and fever to sweep over the subject's body. Creatures with ability scores function at
half effectiveness; others inflict only one-half damage with physical attacks. Movement is 
at one-half normal rate. The subject remains stricken for one turn per level of the caster,
after which all abilities return at the rate of one point per turn of complete rest or one
point per hour of moderate activity. The effects cannot be negated by a cure disease or
heal spell, but a remove curse or successful dispel magic spell is effective. Creatures
other than humans, demihumans, and humanoids save with +2 bonuses versus this attack.
Sleep: The wizard can cause any individual to fall into a comatose slumber by means
of a gaze and a single word, unless the subject successfully rolls its saving throw vs.
spell. Creatures normally subject to a 1st-level sleep spell save with -2 penalties. An
affected creature must be shaken or otherwise shocked back to consciousness.
In all cases, the gaze attack has a speed factor of 1. This spell does not affect undead of
any type, or extend beyond the plane occupied by the caster. Note that the caster is
subject to the effects of his reflected gaze and is allowed any applicable saving throw. In
the case of a reflected charm gaze, the caster is paralyzed until it wears off or is
countered.

 Forest's Fiery Constrictor (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One source of fire
Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes a tentacle of magical flame to snake forth from any existing source 
of natural or magical fire. The flaming tendril is 10 feet long, has AC 7, can be hit only 
by magical weapons of +2 or better, and has hit points equal to double the caster's level.
Any creature within 20 feet of the tentacle is subject to attack as directed by the 
caster. The victim must attempt a saving throw; if successful, the subject has avoided 
entanglement, but suffers 1d6 points of fire damage from contact with the tendril. If the 
saving throw is failed, the victim is entangled by the flaming serpent and suffers 3d6 
points of fire damage each round until the tendril is destroyed or the spell expires.
If the fire source from which the tentacle emanates is extinguished, the remaining 
time that the fiery constrictor may exist is cut in half.
The material component is a red dragon's scale. 

 Geas
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
A geas spell places a magical command upon a creature (usually human or humanoid)
to carry out some service, or to refrain from some action or course of activity, as desired
by the spellcaster. The creature must be intelligent, conscious, under its own volition, and
able to understand the caster. While a geas cannot compel a creature to kill itself or
perform acts that are likely to result in certain death, it can cause almost any other course
of action. The geased creature must follow the given instructions until the geas is
completed. Failure to do so will cause the creature to grow sick and die within 1d4
weeks. Deviation from or twisting of the instructions causes a corresponding loss of
Strength points until the deviation ceases. A geas can be done away with by a wish spell,
but a dispel magic or remove curse spell will not negate it. Your DM will decide any
additional details of a geas, for its casting and fulfillment are tricky, and an improperly
cast geas is ignored.

 Glassee
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to make a section of metal, stone, or wood as
transparent as glass to his gaze, or even make it into transparent material as explained
hereafter. Normally, the glassee spell can make up to 4 inches of metal, 6 inches of stone,
and 20 inches of wood transparent. The spell will not work on lead, gold, or platinum. 
The wizard can opt to make the glassee work only for himself for the duration of the
spell, or he can actually make a transparent area, a one-way window, in the material
affected. Either case gives a viewing area 3 feet wide by 2 feet high. If a window is
created, it has the strength of the original material.
The material component of the spell is a small piece of crystal or glass.

 Globe of Invulnerability
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 5-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell creates an immobile, faintly shimmering, magical sphere around the caster
that prevents any 1st-, 2nd-, 3rd-, or 4th-level spell effects from penetrating. Thus, the
area of effect of any such spell does not include the area of the globe of invulnerability.
This includes innate spell-like abilities and effects from devices. However, any type of
spell can be cast out of the magical sphere; spells pass from the caster of the globe to the
subject without effect on the globe. Fifth and higher level spells are not affected by the
globe. The globe can be brought down by a successful dispel magic spell.
The material component of the spell is a glass or crystal bead that shatters at the
expiration of the spell.

 Greater Sign of Sealing
(Abjuration, Geometry)
Range: 0 Components: S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: Special
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: Special
A more potent form of the lesser sign of sealing, this spell allows the caster to 
guard an item or portal and prevent all other creatures from opening or passing through 
the sealed item or surface. The greater sign has several effects; first of all, it affects a 
doorway or item that opens (a chest, for instance) as a wizard lock spell. If placed in an 
open corridor or archway to prevent passage, the greater sign creates a magical barrier 
that repels all who try to pass.
Second, the greater sign greatly strengthens the physical structure of any door or 
item it is placed upon, granting a +6 bonus on any item saving throws and allowing the 
item or door to ignore 1 point of damage per caster level from any attack. For example, a 
greater sign cast by a 12th-level wizard would reduce the damage of any blow or spell by 
12 points, so a fighter armed with a broad sword (maximum damage of 8 points) could 
never hack through a door protected by the sign.
Finally, if the protected doorway or item is forced open or destroyed by any 
means, the sign itself is not only destroyed, but also releases a spell upon the offending 
creature. The spell held by the sign is cast into the ward when the greater sign is created, 
and any spell the caster has memorized may be used in this way, from a fireball or 
shocking grasp to a very nasty wish or polymorph. The range of the sign’s retributive 
spell is 10 yards per caster level, so it is possible to destroy the warding from a safe 
distance.
The sign is displayed in plain sight, and most wizards will recognize it for what it 
is. The caster cannot specify particular creatures or conditions for the sign’s operation; it 
functions against any creature that attempts to pass it, although the wizard can freely pass 
through his own sign without activating it. The greater sign can be removed by the 
caster, thus ending the spell, or it can be defeated by a limited wish or wish spell cast by a 
wizard of equal or higher level than the original caster; it cannot be dispelled.
The material component for a greater sign is a powdered diamond worth at least 
1,000 gold pieces.

 Guards and Wards
(Evocation, Alteration, Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 3 turns
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This special and powerful spell is primarily used to defend the wizard's stronghold.
The ward protects a one-story stronghold, with a base dimension of 400 feet x 400 feet.
The wizard can ward a multistory area by reducing the base area proportionately. The
following take place in the warded area upon casting the spell:
1. All corridors become misty; visibility is reduced to 10 feet.
2. All doors are wizard locked.
3. Stairs are filled with webs from top to bottom. These act as the 2nd-level web spell,
except that they regrow within one turn if destroyed.
4. Where there are choices in direction--such as a cross or side passage--a minor
confusion-type spell functions so as to make it 50% probable that intruders believe they
are going in the exact opposite direction.
5. The whole area radiates magic. The normal use of the detect magic spell becomes
impossible for those of less than the caster's level and difficult for others.
6. One door per level of experience of the wizard is covered by an illusion to appear as if
it were a plain wall. 
7. The wizard can place one of the following additional magical effects:
 A. Dancing lights in four corridors.
 B. A magic mouth in two places.
 C. A stinking cloud in two places.
 D. A gust of wind in one corridor or room.
 E. A suggestion in one place.

Note that items 6 and 7 function only when the wizard is totally familiar with the area
of the spell's effect. Dispel magic can remove one effect, at random, per casting. A
remove curse spell will not work.
The material components of the spell are burning incense, a small measure of sulphur
and oil, a knotted string, a small amount of umber hulk blood, and a small silver rod.

 Invisible Stalker
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell summons an invisible stalker from the Elemental Plane of Air. This 8-Hit
Dice monster obeys and serves the spellcaster in performing whatever tasks are set before
it. It is a faultless tracker within one day of the quarry's passing. The invisible stalker
follows instructions even if they send him hundreds or thousands of miles away and, once
given an order, follows through unceasingly until the task is accomplished. However, the
creature is bound to serve; it does not do so from loyalty or desire. Therefore, it resents
prolonged missions or complex tasks, and it attempts to pervert instructions accordingly.
Invisible stalkers understand common speech but speak no language save their own.
The material components of this spell are burning incense and a piece of horn carved
into a crescent shape.

 Invulnerability to Magical Weapons (Abjuration)
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 5-foot radius
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere around the caster 
that cannot be penetrated by magical blunt, edged, or missile weapons; all such weapons 
are harmlessly deflected (missile weapons strike the sphere, then immediately fall to the 
ground). However, the sphere offers no protection against magically-created creatures 
(such as golems) or from creatures whose attacks are magically based (such as the gaze 
of a medusa). The sphere offers no protection against spells such as magic missile, or 
spells that simulate the effects of weapons. 
The caster can use magical weapons from inside the sphere to attack opponents 
normally. Spells can also be cast through the sphere. The sphere can be negated by dispel 
magic. 
The material component for this spell is a piece of a broken magical weapon.

 Legend Lore
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The legend lore spell is used to determine legendary information regarding a known
person, place, or thing. If the person or thing is at hand, or if the wizard is in the place in
question, the likelihood of the spell producing results is far greater and the casting time is
only 1d4 turns. If only detailed information on the person, place, or thing is known,
casting time is 1d10 days. If only rumors are known, casting time is 2d6 weeks.
During the casting, the wizard cannot engage in activities other than the routine:
eating, sleeping, etc. When completed, the divination reveals if legendary material is
available. It often reveals where this material is--by place name, rhyme, or riddle. It 
sometimes gives certain information regarding the person, place, or thing (when the
object of the legend lore is at hand), but this data is always in some cryptic form (rhyme,
riddle, anagram, cipher, sign, etc.). Naturally, a legend lore spell reveals information only
if the person, place, or thing is noteworthy or legendary.
For example, suppose Delsenora came across an extremely well-made sword. It
radiates magic, but when she used an identify spell, she could not learn any information.
Even giving it to a trusted fighter didn't work, as the sword did not reveal any special
powers. Finally, she casts a legend lore spell, hoping to gain more information. Since the
sword is at hand, she completes the spell in three turns. In her mind comes the message,
"Once this was the sword of he who waits till Albion's time of greatest peril, when unto
his hand it shall fly again. Fair was the hand that gave me and fair was the hand that
reclaimed me." Clearly, Delsenora realizes, this must be a very powerful item, since her
spell gave only a cryptic answer. But who is he who waits? And where is Albion? For
more information, Delsenora is going to have to cast more spells. But now the process
will take much longer, since she has only the vaguest of clues to follow.
The legend lore spell is cast with incense and strips of ivory formed into a rectangle,
but some item of value to the caster must be sacrificed in addition--a potion, magical
scroll, magical item, etc.

 Lorloveim's Shadowy Transformation (Illusion)
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d4 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast, the illusionist transforms one creature or a specified amount 
of non-living material into shadow, making it insubstantial. Thus, a door could be turned 
to shadow and entered. The maximum amount of inanimate material that may be 
transformed is one cubic foot per level of the caster.
Unwilling creatures are allowed a saving throw to resist the shadowy transformation. 
Magical items and the magical effects of spells (such as Bigby's forceful hand or a wall of 
stone ) cannot be affected.
A transformed creature and all its gear become insubstantial. The creature can pass 
through small holes, narrow openings, and the smallest cracks. The creature cannot fly 
without additional magic.
No form of attack is possible when in shadow form except against creatures that exist 
on the Ethereal plane. In this case, all attacks are normal; however, the shadowy creature 
may be harmed only by magical weapons of +1 or greater or by creatures able to affect 
those struck only by magical weapons. Spells and special attacks have normal effects.
Most undead creatures will ignore a creature in shadow form, believing it to be a 
wraith or spectre; however, liches and powerful undead may save vs. spell with a -4 
penalty to recognize the spell. A successful dispel magic spell forces the creature in 
shadow form back to normal form. 

 Lower Water
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-ft./level square Saving Throw: None
The wizard casting a lower water spell causes water or similar fluid in the area of
effect to sink away. The water can be lowered up to 2 feet for every experience level of
the wizard, to a minimum depth of 1 inch. The water is lowered within a square area
whose sides are 10 feet long per caster level. Thus, a 12th-level wizard affects a volume
of 24 feet x 120 feet x 120 feet, a 13th-level caster a volume of 26 feet x 130 feet x 130
feet, and so on. In extremely large and deep bodies of water, such as deep ocean, the spell
creates a whirlpool that sweeps ships and similar craft downward, putting them at risk
and rendering them unable to leave by normal movement for the duration of the spell.
When cast on water elementals and other water-based creatures, this spell acts as a slow
spell: The creature moves at half speed and makes half the number of attacks each round.
It has no effect on other creatures.
The material component of this spell is a small vial of dust.
Its reverse, raise water, causes water or similar fluids to return to their highest natural
level: spring flood, high tide, etc. This can make fords impassable, float grounded ships,
and may even sweep away bridges, at the DM's option. It negates lower water and vice
versa.
The material component of the raise water spell is a small vial of water.

 Mass Suggestion 
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, M
Duration: 4 turns + 4 turns/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature/level Saving Throw: Neg.
The mass suggestion spell enables the wizard to influence the actions of one or more
chosen creatures in the same way as the suggestion spell. Up to one creature per
experience level of the caster can be influenced, provided that all subject creatures are
within the 30-yard range. Undead are not subject to this spell. The suggestion must be
reasonably worded and understood by the creatures, and must be the same for all hearing
it. Creatures successfully saving vs. spell are unaffected. Saving throws against the spell
suffer a penalty of -1, and if a single creature is to be affected, its saving throw suffers a -
4 penalty. Note that a very reasonable mass suggestion can cause the saving throw to be
made with an additional penalty (such as -1, -2, etc.), at the discretion of your DM. A
mass suggestion can continue in effect for a considerable duration, at the DM's discretion.
Conditions that will trigger a special action can also be specified; if the condition is not
met before the spell expires, the action will not be performed.
The material components of this spell are a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil.

 Mirage Arcana
(Illusion/Phantasm, Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S (M optional)
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: 10 ft./level radius Saving Throw: None
The magic of this spell is similar to that of the vacancy spell, only more powerful and
elaborate. The spell enables the caster to make an area appear to be something other than
it is--a setting he has personally seen. The spell remains as long as the caster maintains a
minimal concentration upon it. Even after this, the spell persists for a total of one hour
plus one additional turn for each experience level of the caster. (Note: Minimal
concentration can be maintained during normal conversation but not while spellcasting,
in melee, or if harmed by an attack.) If the caster actually uses a small bit of anything
connected with the place to create this spell, it takes on a quasi reality.
In its basic form, forceful contact is necessary to have any hope of discovering the
magic, short of a detection device or spell. In its more complex form, where a material
component is used, detection is possible only by some magical means, whether device,
item, or spell. Either form of mirage arcana is subject to the dispel magic spell.
As with all powerful illusions, the mind of the believer urges appropriate effects upon
the viewer's body. Under the influence of the spell, the viewer could possibly walk across
a bed of hot coals thinking it was a shallow stream of water that was cooling his feet (and
thus suffer no damage), dine upon imaginary food and actually be satisfied, or rest
comfortably upon a bed of sharp stones, thinking it a featherbed. Gravity is not affected
by the spell, however, so an envisioned bridge spanning a deep chasm does not support 
the believer. Those who witness the event see it as a sudden disappearance of the
individual. They do not connect it with an illusion unless they are otherwise aware of
some magic at work.

 Mislead
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds. Component: S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When a mislead spell is cast by the wizard, he actually creates an illusory double at the
same time that he is cloaked by improved invisibility magic (see the 4th-level spell). The
wizard is then free to go elsewhere while his double seemingly moves away. The spell
enables the illusion of the wizard to speak and gesture as if it were real, and there are full
olfactory and touch components as well. A true seeing spell or a gem of seeing will reveal
the illusion for what it is. A detect invisibility or true seeing spell or items such as a gem
of seeing or robe of eyes can detect the invisible wizard (see the 5th-level wizard spell
shadow door).

 Monster Summoning IV
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 60-yd. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell is much like the 3rd-level spell monster summoning I, except that this spell
summons 1d3 4th-level monsters. These appear within the spell's area of effect and attack
the caster's opponents, until he commands them to cease, the spell duration expires, or the
monsters are slain. These creatures do not check morale; they vanish when slain. If no
opponent exists to fight, summoned monsters can, if the wizard can communicate with
them, and if they are physically capable, perform other services for the summoning
wizard.
The material components of this spell are a tiny bag and a small (not necessarily lit)
candle.

 Mordenkainen's Lucubration
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By use of this spell, the wizard is able to instantly recall any 1st- through 5th-level
spell he has used during the past 24 hours. The spell must have been memorized and 
actually used during that time period. Mordenkainen's lucubration allows the recovery of
only one spell. If the recalled spell requires material components, these must be provided
by the caster; the recovered spell is not usable until the material components are
available.

 Move Earth
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When cast, the move earth spell moves dirt (clay, loam, sand) and its other
components. Thus, embankments can be collapsed, hillocks moved, dunes shifted, etc.
However, in no event can rock prominences be collapsed or moved. The area to be
affected dictates the casting time; for every 40 yard x 40 yard surface area and 10 feet of
depth, one turn of casting time is required. The maximum area that can be affected is 240
yards x 240 yards, which takes four hours.
If terrain features are to be moved--as compared to simply caving in banks or walls of
earth--it is necessary that an earth elemental be subsequently summoned to assist. All
spell casting or summoning must be completed before any effects occur. As any
summoned earth elemental will perform most of its work underground, it is unlikely that
it will be intercepted or interrupted. Should this occur, however, the movement of the
earth requiring its services must be stopped until the elemental is once again available.
Should the elemental be slain or dismissed, the move earth spell is limited to collapsing
banks or walls of earth.
The spell cannot be used for tunneling and is generally too slow to trap or bury
creatures; its primary use is for digging or filling moats or for adjusting terrain contours
before a battle.
The material components for this spell are a mixture of soils (clay, loam, sand) in a
small bag and an iron blade.
Note: This spell does not violently break the surface of the ground. Instead, it creates
wavelike crests and troughs, with the earth reacting with glacierlike fluidity until the
desired result is achieved. Trees, structures, rock formations, etc. are relatively
unaffected, save for changes in elevation and relative topography.

 Otiluke's Freezing Sphere
(Alteration, Evocation)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Otiluke's Freezing Sphere is a multipurpose spell of considerable power. If the caster
opts, he may create any of the following:
A) Frigid globe. A small globe of matter at absolute zero temperature that spreads 
upon contact with water, or a liquid that is principally water, freezing it to a depth of 6
inches over an area equal to 100 square feet per level of the spellcaster. This ice lasts for
one round per level of the caster.
The material component is a thin sheet of crystal about an inch square.
B) Cold ray. The spell can be used as a thin ray of cold that springs from the caster's
hand to a distance of 10 yards per level of the wizard; this ray inflicts 1d4+2 points of
damage per level of the caster upon the first creature struck. A saving throw vs. spell is
applicable; all damage is negated if it is successful (as the ray is so narrow a save
indicates it missed). If the first creature is missed, the path of the ray is plotted to its full
distance, and anything else in its path must save (if applicable) or suffer appropriate
damage.
The material component is a white sapphire of not less than 1,000 gp value.
C) Globe of cold. This creates a small globe about the size of a sling stone, cool to the
touch, but not harmful. This globe can be hurled, either by hand to a distance of 40 yards
(considered short range), or as a sling bullet. The globe shatters upon impact, inflicting
6d6 points of cold damage upon all creatures within a 10-foot radius (one-half damage if
a saving throw vs. spell is successful). Use the Grenadelike Missile Table in the Dungeon
Master Guide to find where misses strike. Note that if the globe is not thrown or slung
within one round per level of the spellcaster, it shatters and causes cold damage as stated
above. This timed effect can be employed against pursuers, although it can prove
hazardous to the spellcaster and his associates as well.
The material component is a 1,000-gp diamond.

 Part Water
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 20 ft. x Saving Throw: None
3 ft./level x 30 ft./level
By employing a part water spell, the wizard is able to cause water or similar liquid to
move apart, thus forming a 20-foot-wide trough. The depth and length of the trough are
dependent upon the level of the wizard, and a trough 3 feet deep by 10 yards long is
created per level. For example, at 12th level the wizard would part water 36 feet deep by
20 feet wide by 120 yards long. The trough remains as long as the spell lasts or until the
wizard who cast it opts to end its effects. If cast under water, this spell creates an air
cylinder of appropriate length and diameter. If cast directly on a water elemental or other
water-based creature, the creature receives 4d8 damage and must roll a successful saving
throw vs. spell or flee in panic for 3d4 rounds.
The material components for the spell are two small sheets of crystal or glass.

 Permanent Illusion
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube + Saving Throw: Special
10-ft. cube/level
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates an illusion with visual, auditory, olfactory,
and thermal elements. The spell can create the illusion of any object, creature, or force, as
long as it is within the boundaries of the spell's area of effect. It affects all creatures that
view the illusion, even to the extent of them suffering damage from falling into an
illusory pit full of sharp spikes.
Creatures that attempt to disbelieve the illusion gain a saving throw vs. spell and, if
successful, they see it for what it is and add +4 bonuses to associates' saving throws, if
this knowledge can be communicated effectively. Creatures not sensing the spell effect
are immune until they become aware of it. The permanent illusion is subject to a dispel
magic spell, of course.
The material component of the spell is a bit of fleece.

 Programmed Illusion
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube + Saving Throw: Special
10-ft. cube/level
This spell creates a spectral force spell that activates upon command or when a
specific condition occurs. The illusion has visual, auditory, olfactory, and thermal
elements. It can be of any object, creature, or force, as long as it remains within the
boundaries of the spell's area of effect.
The occurrence that begins the illusion can be as general or as specific and detailed as
desired, such as the following: "Begin only when a venerable female human carrying a
sack of groat clusters sits cross-legged within one foot of this spot." Such visual triggers
can react to a character using the disguise ability. Command range is 5 yards per level of
the wizard, so a 12th-level wizard can command the programmed illusion to occur at a
maximum encounter range of 60 yards. A programmed illusion cannot distinguish
invisible creatures, nor alignment, level, Hit Dice, or class, except by external garb. If
desired, the effect can be keyed to a specific noise or spoken word. The spell lasts until
the illusion occurs; thus, the spell duration is variable. The illusion will last for a
maximum of one round per level of the spellcaster.
Creatures that attempt to disbelieve the illusion gain a saving throw vs. spell and, if
successful, see it for what it is and add +4 bonuses to associates' saving throws, if this
knowledge can be communicated effectively. Creatures not sensing the spell effect are
immune until they become aware of it. The illusion is subject to a dispel magic spell.
The material component of the spell is a bit of fleece.

 Project Image
(Alteration, Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard creates a nonmaterial duplicate of himself,
projecting it to any spot within spell range. This image performs actions decided by the
wizard--walking, speaking, spellcasting--conforming to the actual actions of the wizard
unless he concentrates on making it act differently (in which case the wizard is limited to
half movement and no attacks).
The image can be dispelled only by means of a successful dispel magic spell (or upon
command from the spellcaster); attacks pass harmlessly through it. The image must be
within view of the wizard projecting it at all times, and if his sight is obstructed, the spell
is broken. Note that if the wizard is invisible at the time the spell is cast, the image is also
invisible until the caster's invisibility ends, though the wizard must still be able to see the
image (by means of a detect invisibility spell or other method) to maintain the spell. If the
wizard uses dimension door, teleport, plane shift, or a similar spell that breaks his line of
vision, the project image spell ends.
The material component of this spell is a small replica (doll) of the wizard.

 Reincarnation
(Necromancy)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Person touched Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the wizard can bring back to life a person who died no more than one
day per level of experience of the wizard before the casting of the spell. The essence of
the dead person is transferred to another body, possibly one very different from his
former body. Reincarnation does not require any saving throw, system shock, or
resurrection survival roll. The corpse is touched, and a new incarnation of the person will
appear in the area in 1d6 turns. The person reincarnated recalls the majority of his former
life and form, but the character class, if any, of the new incarnation might be different
indeed. The new incarnation is determined on the following table. If a player character
race is indicated, the character must be created.

D100 Roll | Incarnation
 01-05    | Bugbear
 06-11    | Dwarf
 12-18    | Elf
 19-23    | Gnoll
 24-28    | Gnome
 29-33    | Goblin
 34-40    | Half-elf
 41-47    | Halfling
 48-54    | Half-orc
 55-59    | Hobgoblin
 60-73    | Human
 74-79    | Kobold
 80-85    | Orc
 86-90    | Ogre
 91-95    | Ogre mage
 96-00    | Troll

Note: Very good or very evil persons will not be reincarnated as creatures whose
general alignment is the opposite.
The material components of the spell are a small drum and a drop of blood.

 Repulsion
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/2 levels Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10 ft./level x 10 ft. Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard is able to cause all creatures in the path of the area
of effect to move directly away from his person. Repulsion occurs at the speed of the
creature attempting to move toward the spellcaster. The repelled creature continues to
move away for a complete round even if this takes it beyond spell range. The caster can
designate a new direction each round, but use of this power counts as the caster's
principal action in the round. The caster can, of course, choose to do something else
instead of using the repulsion attack.
The material component for this spell is a pair of small magnetized iron bars attached
to two small canine statuettes, one ivory and one ebony.

 Shades
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
This spell is related to the shadow monsters and demishadow monsters spells. The
shades spell uses material from the Demiplane of Shadow to form semireal illusions of
one or more monsters, up to 1 Hit Die per caster level. All shades created by one spell
must be of the same sort, and they have 60% of the hit point total the real creatures would
have. Those who view the shades and fail their saving throws vs. spell believe the
illusion.
The shades perform as the real monsters with respect to Armor Class and attack forms.
Special attack forms such as petrification or level drain do not actually occur, but a
subject who believes the shades are real will react appropriately, until the illusion is 
countered by a dispel magic spell or the condition is countered by a heal spell. Those
who roll successful saving throws see the shades as transparent images superimposed on
vague shadowy forms. These are Armor Class 6 and cause only 60% of the true monsters'
normal melee damage.

 Stone to Flesh
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
The stone to flesh spell turns any sort of stone into flesh. If the recipient stone object
was formerly living, this spell restores life (and goods), although the survival of the
creature is subject to the usual system shock survival roll. Any formerly living creature,
regardless of size, can be thus returned to flesh. Ordinary stone can be turned to flesh in a
volume of 9 cubic feet per level of experience of the spellcaster. Such flesh is inert,
lacking a vital life force, unless a life force or magical energy is available (for example,
this spell would turn a stone golem into a flesh golem, but an ordinary statue would
become a body). If cast upon stone, the wizard can create a cylinder of fleshy material
from 1 to 3 feet in diameter and up to 10 feet long, allowing a passage to be made.
The material components are a pinch of earth and a drop of blood.
The reverse, flesh to stone, turns flesh of any sort to stone. All possessions on the
person of the creature likewise turn to stone. The intended subject of the spell receives a
saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect. If a statue created by this spell is subjected to
breakage or weathering, the being (if ever returned to his original, fleshy state) will have
similar damage, deformities, etc. The DM may allow such damage to be repaired by
various high-level clerical spells, such as regenerate.
The material components of the spell are lime, water, and earth.

 Superior Magnetism
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. + 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./5 levels Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard designates one inanimate object of stone, earth, 
or metal within the spell’s range to function as a powerful magnet, attracting all metal. 
The object affected can be no larger than a 10-foot cube, although a section of wall, floor, 
or ceiling about 10 square feet will work. Once magnetized, the object exerts a powerful 
attractive or repulsive force (caster’s choice) against objects of ferrous metal. The effects 
vary by the proximity of the metal objects to the center of magnetism, as shown below:

Distance to     |  Movement Rate |  Effective   |  Missile Attack
Magnetism       |  per Round     |  Strength    |  Penalty
10 feet or less |  40 feet       |  22 (Garg.)  |  –40
20 feet or less |  20 feet       |  20 (Huge)   |  –20
30 feet or less |  10 feet       |  18 (Large)  |  –10
40 feet or less |  5 feet        |  14 (Medium) |  –5
50 feet or less |  2 feet        |  10 (Small)  |  –2
60 feet or less |  1 foot        |  4 (Tiny)    |  –1

The movement rate represents how fast objects are drawn to or repelled from the 
center of magnetism. If the creature or object in question is heavier than the magnetized 
item, the magnetized item does the moving instead. The effective Strength is the “pull” of 
the magnetism at that range; the size equivalent refers to creature sizes, not weapon sizes. 
(All human-sized weapons are considered small or tiny for this chart). A character or 
creature carrying loose metal items or objects such as weapons, shields, helms, buttons, 
and so on must win an opposed Strength check (see Player’s Option: Combat & Tactics 
for information on opposed ability checks) in order to keep his possessions from being 
wrenched out of his grasp by the magnetism. Securing a weapon in its sheath, holding an 
item with both hands, and other precautions may give the character a +2 to +4 to his base 
ability score, at the DM’s discretion.
Characters wearing metal armor must attempt an opposed Strength check to 
ignore the effects of the magnetism. If the character fails his Strength check outright, he 
loses his footing and flies towards or away from the object at the full rate indicated. He 
suffers full falling damage based on the speed with which he hits the item—1d6 for every 
10 feet of the movement rate, or half that damage if he is repelled and simply thrown 
back onto the ground. If the character passes his Strength check but is beaten by the 
magnetism roll, he is moved one foot for each point he lost by. Again, some precautions 
or assistance may help iron-wearing characters in their Strength checks. For monsters, 
compare the creature’s size to the effective size of magnetism.
An armored character who is stuck to a surface or object loses any Dexterity 
adjustments to AC and cannot make any physical attacks. He can try to wriggle out of his 
armor and free himself, employ a magical item, or use psionic powers if he has any at his 
disposal.
Lodestone the fighter is charging a wizard when the dastardly felon magnetizes a 
sizable boulder about 30 feet from Lodestone’s present position. Lodestone carries a long 
sword, a shield, and wears plate mail; he has a Strength of 17. First, he checks to see if 
he holds onto his sword and shield, making two opposed Strength rolls. He loses the 
shield, but keeps hold of his sword. Now the DM checks to see if Lodestone resists the 
drag on his armor. At 30 feet, the magnetism has a Strength of 18. Lodestone rolls a 6, 
but the magnetism roll is a 12. Even though both Lodestone and the magnetism made 
their Strength rolls, the magnetism roll is higher than Lodestone’s roll and does not go 
over its target Strength score. As a result, Lodestone is dragged 6 feet closer to it. Next 
round, Lodestone tries again and blows his roll altogether, moving a full 10 feet closer. 
Now only 14 feet from the boulder, the magnetism’s Strength is effectively a 20, which 
means Lodestone is in big trouble. If he blows his roll again the next round, he’ll go 
flying into the boulder at a rate of 20 feet/round, which will inflict 2d6 points of damage.
If a creature wins its Strength check, it can ignore the spell’s effects and move out 
of the zone of influence normally.
Sirellyn’s superior magnetism also affects the passage of iron or steel missiles, 
such as steel-headed arrows or quarrels. Any missile that passes through the zone of 
influence suffers an attack penalty equal to the movement at the range indicated. For 
example, if the path of an arrow brings it within 40 feet of a magnetized object, the attack 
suffers a –5 penalty. Finally, it is possible for the casting wizard to be affected by this 
spell as well. As a result, the wizard had better make sure that he’s out of the effective 
area of effect when casting.
The material component for this spell is a small bar magnet, bent into a U-shape 
and coated with mithral.

 Tenser's Transformation
(Alteration, Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Tenser's transformation is a sight guaranteed to astound any creature not aware of its
power, for when the wizard casts the spell, he undergoes a startling transformation. The
size and strength of the wizard increase to heroic proportions, so he becomes a
formidable fighting machine; the spell causes the caster to become a berserk fighter! The
wizard's hit points double, and all damage he sustains comes first from the magical points
gained; once these points are eliminated, all subsequent damage (to his true hit points) is
doubled. The Armor Class of the wizard is 4 better than that possessed prior to casting
the spell (AC 10 goes to 6, AC 9 to 5, AC 8 to 4, etc.), to a maximum Armor Class of - 
10.
All attacks are as a fighter of the same level as the wizard (i.e., the wizard uses the
combat values normally reserved for fighters). The wizard can use either a dagger or a
staff when attacking. A dagger can be used twice per round, and each successful attack
inflicts an additional 2 points of damage. A staff can be used only once per round, but
with a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls. The wizard fights in melee in preference to
all other forms of attack, and continues attacking until all opponents are slain, he is killed,
the magic is dispelled, or the spell duration expires.
The material component for casting this spell is a potion of heroism (or superheroism)
that the wizard must consume during the course of uttering the spell.

 Tentacles (Conjuration, Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster causes two 10-foot-long greenish tentacles to grow 
from his body. One tentacle grows on each side of the caster's body, centered between
 his armpit and his thigh. The caster can use the tentacles as normal appendages to grasp 
tools, use weapons, or help with climbing. 
Each tentacle can make an attack, effectively giving the caster two extra attacks per 
round; a tentacle can strike to inflict 1-6 hit points of damage, or it can wield a sword, 
dagger, or other weapon (at the same ability of the caster). The flexible tentacles can 
easily reach victims on any side of the caster's body. 
If an unarmed tentacle makes a successful strike against a victim who is man-sized or 
smaller (less than 7 feet tall), it also grabs and holds the victim to inflict an automatic 2-8 
(2d4) hit points of damage in every subsequent round. To free himself, the victim must 
sever the tentacle; there is no way to loosen the grip other than severing the member, 
killing the caster, or negating the spell with dispel magic. A tentacle is severed if it takes 
10 hit points of damage; damage directed at the tentacle has no adverse effects on the 
caster. 
A caster with two intact tentacles adds a 40 percent bonus modifier to his climbing
success rate (see page 122 of the Player's Handbook, ) and adds a 20 percent modifier if 
he has only one intact tentacle. 
The material component for this spell is a dried tentacle from a small octopus

 Transmute Water to Dust
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None (special)
When this spell is cast, the subject area instantly undergoes a change from liquid to
powdery dust. Note that if the water is already muddy, the area of effect is doubled, while
if wet mud is being transmuted, the area of effect is quadrupled. If water remains in
contact with the transmuted dust, the former quickly soaks the latter, turning the dust into
silty mud (if a sufficient quantity of water exists to do so), otherwise soaking or
dampening the dust accordingly.
Only liquid actually in the area of effect at the moment of spellcasting is affected.
Liquids that are only partially water are affected only insofar as the actual water content
is concerned; however, potions containing water are rendered useless. Living creatures
are unaffected, except for those native to the Elemental Plane of Water. Such creatures
receive saving throws vs. spell. Failure inflicts 1d6 points of damage per caster level
upon the subject, while success means the creature receives half damage. Only one such
creature can be affected by any single casting of this spell, regardless of the creature's
size or the size of the spell's area of effect.
The reverse of the spell is simply a very high-powered create water spell that requires
a pinch of normal dust as an additional material component.
For either usage of the spell, other components required are diamond dust of at least
500 gp value and a bit of seashell.

 Trollish Fortitude
(Necromancy)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This powerful spell imbues the caster with the physical fortitude and resilience of 
a troll. While the spell is in effect, the caster regenerates 3 hit points per round until he 
reaches his normal maximum. He also gains a troll’s ability to ignore dismemberment, 
decapitation, and other horrible injuries that would normally incapacitate or kill him 
outright (although losing a limb may prevent the caster from taking certain actions, such 
as running, climbing, and other activities). Bleeding, wounding, being reduced to 
negative hit points, and other effects that cause the victim to lose hit points from round to 
round are ignored—the caster instead regains 3 hit points per round, up to his normal 
maximum. If the caster is reduced to less than 0 hit points, he is incapacitated and must 
make a system shock roll or lose all of his highest level spells. The incapacitation lasts 
only until his regeneration restores him to 1 hit point or more; he can move, fight, and 
cast spells again as soon as his hit point total is positive.
Trollish fortitude does not provide the caster with any defenses against lethal 
poison, disease, and other effects that don’t cause a loss of hit points. Hit points lost 
through level draining, vampiric touch, or vampiric regeneration cannot be regenerated 
since this represents damage to the victim’s life force, and not physical injury. In 
addition, fire damage and acid damage cannot be regenerated. While the spell is in effect, 
the caster can rejoin severed limbs simply by holding them in place, but if the spell ends 
while a limb (which were already moving toward him) is still separate from his body, he 
immediately suffers the full effects of the injury.
The material component for this spell is a shred of dried flesh from a troll’s heart 
that must be pulverized into dust. The dust is then sprinkled on the caster.

 True Seeing
(Divination)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Line of sight, Saving Throw: None
max. 60 ft.
When the wizard employs this spell, he confers upon the recipient the ability to see all
things as they actually are. The spell penetrates normal and magical darkness. Secret
doors become plain. The exact location of displaced things is obvious. Invisible things
become visible. Illusions and apparitions are seen through. Polymorphed, changed, or
enchanted objects are apparent. (The real form appears translucently superimposed on the
apparent form: A gold dragon polymorphed to human form would appear human with a
ghostly dragon looming over the human form.) Unlike the clerical version of this spell,
the recipient cannot determine alignment. The recipient can focus his vision to see into
the Ethereal Plane or the bordering areas of adjacent planes. The range of vision
conferred is 60 feet. True seeing does not penetrate solid objects; it in no way confers Xray vision or its equivalent.
 Furthermore, the spell effects cannot be enhanced with
magic.
The spell requires an ointment for the eyes that is made from a very rare mushroom
powder, saffron, and fat. It costs no less than 300 gp per use and must be aged for 1d6
months.

 Veil
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
The veil spell enables the wizard to instantly change the appearance of his
surroundings and party or create hallucinatory terrain so as to fool even the most clever
creatures (unless they have the true seeing spell, a gem of seeing, or a similar magical
aid). The veil can make a sumptuous room seem like a filthy den; even tactile
impressions conform to the visual illusion. Likewise, a party might be made to resemble a
mixed band of brownies, pixies, and faeries led by a treant. If hallucinatory terrain is
created, touch does not cause it to vanish.

 Whirlwind
(Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Cone 10 ft. Saving Throw: Special
 wide at base and 30 ft. tall
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: d20
Sensory: Huge visual/audio, Critical: Large (1d3
 large tactile hits) crushing
This spell creates a powerful cyclone of raging wind that moves as directed by the 
priest. The whirlwind can move by zigzagging along the ground or over water at a 
movement rate of 6. The whirlwind always moves after all other creatures have moved, 
and many creatures can avoid it simply by keeping their distance. If the cyclone exceeds 
the spell’s range, it moves in a random, uncontrolled fashion for 1d3 rounds—possibly 
endangering the caster or his allies—and then dissipates.
Any creature of size L (large) or smaller that comes in contact with the whirlwind 
must make a saving throw vs. breath weapon or suffer 2d8 damage. Size M (man-sized) 
or smaller creatures who fail their first saving throw must attempt a second one, or be 
picked up bodily by the whirlwind and held suspended in its powerful winds, suffering 
1d8 points of damage each round with no save allowed. The caster may direct the cyclone 
to eject any carried creatures whenever he wishes, depositing the hapless souls wherever 
the whirlwind happens to be when they are released.
Maintaining the whirlwind requires the caster’s full attention, and he cannot cast 
other spells or make any attacks while directing the spell’s course. If his concentration 
fails for some reason, he cannot simply cancel the spell. Instead, the spell becomes 
uncontrolled as described above and dissipates after 1d3 rounds.
In truly desperate circumstances, priests of elemental air have been known to 
deliberately overrun their companions in order to carry them out of the path of some 
certain doom. Few care to repeat the experience. The material component for this spell is 
a handful of dust collected from a zephyr or snow from a williwaw.

 Wildshield* (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell cloaks the caster in a whirling band of scintillating colors, completely 
concealing him. The caster is able to see normally within and outside the shield.
The wildshield protects the caster from the effects of spells and magical items. The 
shield can completely absorb 2d6 spell levels (i.e., if the roll of 2d6 results in 10, the 
shield could absorb ten 1st-level spells, two 5th-level spells, or any similar combination), 
thereby negating their effects on the caster. Both area effect spells and those individually 
targeted at the wild mage can be absorbed. In the case of area spells, the wildshield
protects only the mage. All others in the area of effect suffer normal effects from the 
spell.
Wildshield also protects against wild surges, whether caused by the caster's magic or 
by an outside source. Each wild surge is considered equal to 1d6 spell levels.
The spell remains in effect until it is either canceled by the caster or it reaches its 
spell level capacity. If the capacity is met exactly, the wildshield simply ceases to 
function. However, if the wildshield is struck by more spell levels than it can absorb, it 
explodes in a wild surge. The spell that triggered the surge is completely negated, its 
energy instead transformed into a wild surge (see Table 2). Since the shield no longer 
functions, the formerly protected wizard is subject to full effects of this wild surge.
The material component is a small sponge. 

 Wildstrike* (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4 rounds
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is used primarily against hostile spellcasters. It distorts all attempts at 
spellcasting, converting spell energy into wild surges.
The victim of a wildstrike is allowed a saving throw; if successful, the spell has no 
effect. If the saving throw is failed, the target is enclosed within a field of wild magic. If 
the victim casts spells or uses a charge from a magical item, a wild surge is automatically 
created (refer to Table 2). When determining the effects of this surge, the true level of the 
wild mage who cast the wildstrike is subtracted from the die roll, making the effects of 
the wild surge more likely to affect the victim.
The material component is a small glass tube that is shattered in the casting.

 Sixth-Level Spells

 Aerial Servant
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell summons an invisible aerial servant to find and bring back an object or
creature described to it by the priest. Unlike an elemental, an aerial servant cannot be
commanded to fight for the caster. When it is summoned, the priest must have cast a
protection from evil spell, be within a protective circle, or have a special item used to
control the aerial servant. Otherwise, it attempts to slay its summoner and return from
whence it came.
The object or creature to be brought must be such as to allow the aerial servant to
physically bring it to the priest (an aerial servant can carry at least 1,000 pounds). If
prevented, for any reason, from completing the assigned duty, the aerial servant returns to
its own plane whenever the spell lapses, its duty is fulfilled, it is dispelled, the priest
releases it, or the priest is slain. The spell lasts for a maximum of one day for each level
of experience of the priest who cast it.
If the creature to be fetched cannot detect invisible objects, the aerial servant attacks,
automatically gaining surprise. If the creature involved can detect invisible objects, it still
suffers a -2 penalty to all surprise rolls caused by the aerial servant. Each round of
combat, the aerial servant must roll to attack. When a hit is scored, the aerial servant has
grabbed the item or creature it was sent for.
A creature with a Strength rating is allowed an evasion roll, equal to twice its [pi]bend
bars[xpi] chance, to escape the hold. If the creature in question does not have a Strength
rating, roll 1d8 for each Hit Die the aerial servant and the creature grabbed have. The
higher total is the stronger.
Once seized, the creature cannot free itself by Strength or Dexterity and is flown to the
priest forthwith.

 Age Creature (Alteration) Reversible 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell ages the targeted creature one year per level of the caster. Unwilling 
subjects may attempt a saving throw to resist the spell. Subjects affected by age creature
must make a successful system shock roll to survive the change.
Subjects cannot be aged beyond their natural life spans. If the priest's level indicates 
that a creature would be aged beyond this level, the creature is aged to one year short of 
his maximum age. The spell cannot cause a subject to die.
Human and humanoid characters affected by the spell experience changes in 
appearance associated with increased age, such as gray hair and wrinkles. More 
significantly, they suffer losses in Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution when they reach 
certain age levels. These are summarized in Table 12: Aging Effects in the Player's 
Handbook. The Player's Handbook also provides rules for determining a character's base 
age.
Nonmagical monsters can be affected by age creature. The DM determines a 
monster's current age and natural life span based on its description in the MONSTROUS 
COMPENDIUM or based on his own judgment. To determine the effects of aging on a 
monster, assume the following: a monster is middle-aged when it reaches half its natural 
life span; a monster reaches old age at two-thirds of its natural life span; a monster 
reaches venerable age in the last one-sixth of its years. A monster suffers the penalties 
which follow when it reaches these age levels. The penalties are cumulative and 
permanent (unless the affected monster becomes younger).

Age        | Penalty 
Middle Age |  -1 to all saving throws 
Old Age    |  -1 to all saving throws 
           | -1 to all attack rolls 
Venerable  |  -1 to all saving throws 
           | -1 to all attack rolls 

The material component is a pinch of powdered emerald.
The reverse of this spell, restore youth, permanently restores age that has been lost as 
a result of magic (such as an age creature spell). Restore youth reduces the age of the 
targeted creature by one year per level of the caster. The subject must make a successful 
system shock roll to survive the change. Subjects who become younger regain the lost 
ability scores described above. A subject cannot become younger than his actual age as a 
result of this spell.
The material component is a pinch of powdered ruby. 

 Animal Summoning III
(Conjuration, Summoning)
Sphere: Animal, Summoning
Range: 100 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell is the same in duration and effect as the 4th-level animal summoning I spell,
except that up to four animals of no more than 16 Hit Dice each can be summoned, or
eight of no more than 8 Hit Dice, or 16 creatures of no more than 4 Hit Dice. Only
animals within range of the caster at the time the spell is cast will come. The caster can
try three times to summon three different types of animals[md]e.g., suppose that wild
dogs are first summoned to no avail, then hawks are unsuccessfully called, and finally the
caster calls for wild horses that may or may not be within summoning range. Your DM
will determine the chance of a summoned animal type being within range of the spell.
The animals summoned will aid the caster by whatever means they possess, staying until
a fight is over, a specific mission is finished, the caster is safe, he sends them away, etc.
Only normal or giant animals can be summoned; fantastic animals or monsters cannot be
summoned by this spell (no chimerae, dragons, gorgons, manticores, etc.).

 Animate Object
(Alteration)
Sphere: Creation, Summoning
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: None
This powerful spell enables the priest casting it to imbue inanimate objects with
mobility and a semblance of life. The animated object, or objects, then attacks whomever
or whatever the priest first designates. The animated object can be of any nonmagical
material whatsoever[md]wood, metal, stone, fabric, leather, ceramic, glass, etc.
Attempting to animate an object in someone's possession grants that person a saving
throw to prevent the spell's effect. The speed of movement of the object depends on its
means of propulsion and its weight. A large wooden table would be rather heavy, but its
legs would give it speed. A rug could only slither along. A jar would roll. Thus a large
stone pedestal would rock forward at 10 feet per round, a stone statue would move at 40
feet per round, a wooden statue 80 feet per round, an ivory stool of light weight would
move at 120 feet per round. Slithering movement is about 10 feet to 20 feet per round;
rolling is 30 feet to 60 feet per round. The damage caused by the attack of an animated
object depends on its form and composition. Light, supple objects can only obscure
vision, obstruct movement, bind, trip, smother, etc. Light, hard objects can fall upon or
otherwise strike for 1d2 points of damage or possibly obstruct and trip, as do light, supple
objects. Hard, medium-weight objects can crush or strike for 2d4 points of damage, while
larger and heavier objects may inflict 3d4, 4d4, or even 5d4 points of damage.
The frequency of attack of animated objects depends on their method of locomotion,
appendages, and method of attack. This varies from as seldom as once every five melee
rounds to as frequently as once per round. The Armor Class of the object per round. The
Armor Class of the object animated is basically a function of material and movement
ability. Damage depends on the type of weapon is effective against fabric, leather, wood,
and like substances. Heavy smashing and crushing weapons are useful against wood,
stone, and metal objects. Your DM will determine all of these factors, as well as how
much damage the animated object can sustain before being destroyed. The priest can
animate one cubic foot of material for each experience level he has attained. Thus, a
14th-level priest could animate one or more objects whose solid volume did not exceed
14 cubic feet[md]a large statue, two rugs, three chairs, or a dozen average crocks.

 Anti-Animal Shell
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Animal, Protection
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell, the caster brings into being a hemispherical force field that
prevents the entrance of any sort of living creature that is wholly or partially animal (not
magical or extraplanar). Thus a sprite, a giant, or a chimera would be kept out, but
undead or conjured creatures could pass through the shell of force, as could such
monsters as aerial servants, imps, quasits, golems, elementals, etc. The anti-animal shell
functions normally against crossbreeds, such as cambions, and lasts for one turn for each
level of experience the caster has attained. Forcing the barrier against creatures strains
and ultimately collapses the field.
The spell requires the caster's holy symbol and a handful of pepper.

 Blade Barrier
(Evocation)
Sphere: Guardian, Creation
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 5-60 ft. sq. Saving Throw: Special
The priest employs this spell to set up a wall of circling, razor-sharp blades. These
whirl and flash around a central point, creating an immobile barrier. Any creature
attempting to pass through the blade barrier suffers 8d8 points of damage. The plane of
rotation of the blades can be horizontal, vertical, or in between. Creatures within the area
of the barrier when it is invoked are entitled to a saving throw vs. spell. If this is
successful, the blades are avoided and no damage is suffered; the creature escapes the
area of the blade barrier by the shortest possible route. The barrier remains for three
rounds for every experience level of the priest casting it. The barrier can cover an area
from as small as 5 feet square to as large as 60 feet square.

 Conjure Animals
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The conjure animals spell enables the priest to magically create one or more mammals
to attack his opponents. The total Hit Dice of the mammals cannot exceed twice his level,
if the creature conjured is determined randomly. If a specific animal type is requested, the
animal's Hit Dice cannot exceed his level. The DM selects the type of animal that appears
if it is randomly called. Thus, a priest of 12th level could randomly conjure two mammals
with 12 Hit Dice each, four with 6 Hit Dice each, six with 4 Hit Dice each, eight with 3
Hit Dice each, 12 with 2 Hit Dice each, or 24 with 1 Hit Die each. Count every +1 hit
point added to a creature's Hit Dice as _ of a Hit Die. Thus a creature with 4 + 3 Hit Dice
equals a 4 _ Hit Dice creature. The conjured animals remain for two rounds for conjured
animals remain for two rounds for each level of the conjuring priest, or until slain, and
they follow the caster's verbal commands. Conjured animals unfailingly attack the priest's
opponents, but resist being used for any other purpose--they do not like it, become
noticeably more difficult to control, and may refuse any action, break free, or turn on the
caster, depending on the nature of the creature and the details of the situation. The
conjured animals disappear when slain.

 Conjure Fire Elemental
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6 rds.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Upon casting a conjure fire elemental spell, the caster opens a special gate to the
elemental plane of Fire, and a fire elemental is summoned to the vicinity of the
spellcaster. It is 65% likely that a 12 Hit Dice elemental appears, 20% likely that a 16 Hit
Dice elemental appears, 9% likely that two to four salamanders appear, 4% likely that an
efreeti appears, and 2% likely that a huge fire elemental of 21 to 24 Hit Dice appears. The
caster need not fear that the elemental force summoned will turn on him, so concentration
upon the activities of the fire elemental (or other creatures summoned) or protection from
the creature is not necessary. The elemental summoned helps the caster however possible,
including attacking the caster's opponents. The fire elemental or other creature
summoned remains for a maximum of one turn per level of the caster, or until it is slain,
sent back by a dispel magic spell, the reverse of this spell, dismiss fire elemental, or
similar magic.

 Crushing Walls (Enchantment) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent until activated
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to enchant a floor, ceiling, or single wall of a room to 
crush intruders. The enchanted surface can be no larger than a square whose sides equal 
the caster's level times 2 feet (a 13th-level priest could affect a 26' x 26' surface).
The spell activates 1d4 rounds after any creature other than the caster enters the room. 
The intruder must be larger than a normal rat (larger than one-half cubic foot or weighing 
more than three pounds). When activated, the enchanted surface moves toward the 
opposite surface at a rate of 3 feet per round. Unless the spell is canceled by the caster, 
the enchanted surface continues to move until one of the following events occurs:
•A creature with sufficient Strength (minimum score of 19) stops the enchanted 
surface from moving by succeeding a Strength check. Such a creature suffers no damage 
from the enchanted surface. If the creature prevents the enchanted surface from moving 
for three consecutive rounds, the wall returns to its original position and the spell is 
negated. If multiple creatures attempt to stop the wall, the highest strength score is used 
as a base score; one point is added to that score for every creature assisting. Thus, a 
creature with 16 Strength assisted by three creatures could attempt to stop the wall.
•A strong or heavy object made of stone, wood, or metal is placed in the path of the 
wall. If the item survives a saving throw vs. crushing blow, the object successfully 
braces the wall. If the object holds for three consecutive rounds, the surface returns to its 
original position and the spell is negated. The DM must use discretion in determining the 
types of objects that will brace the wall.
•Dispel magic or a similar spell or magical item is used to cancel the crushing wall.
Creatures can avoid being crushed by using a potion of diminution, potion of gaseous 
form, or other devices or spells that reduce size. The crushing wall almost never touches 
the opposite wall, usually being stopped by debris. A gap of two inches or more usually 
remains between the walls.
If the wall is not stopped, it causes crushing damage to everyone in the room. All 
creatures must make a saving throw vs. death. Those who fail are crushed to death. Those 
who save successfully suffer 5d10 points of damage. When the wall can move no farther, 
it returns to its original position and the spell is negated.
The material components are a 1-inch iron cube and a walnut shell. 

 Disbelief (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
This spell allows the caster to temporarily convince himself that certain objects or as 
many as four creatures within the area of effect do not actually exist. While disbelief
remains in effect, these objects or creatures cannot harm or hinder the caster. He can pass 
through them as if they did not exist and takes no damage from their attacks or actions. 
However, since these objects or creatures temporarily do not exist for the priest, he can 
take no action against them. If the creatures attack, the caster receives no Dexterity bonus 
to armor class (since this bonus represents dodging, and the priest is unable to dodge a 
creature that does not exist for him).
The caster can attempt to disbelieve as many as four creatures within 60 feet of his 
position at the time of casting. He disbelieves the same four creatures for the duration of 
the spell. Alternatively, the priest can disbelieve any or all inanimate objects of up to 20-
cubic-yard volume (thus, he may disbelieve a 12 foot by 15 foot area of 3-foot-thick 
wall). This volume must be centered on a point no more than 20 yards from the caster. 
These two options are mutually exclusive; the priest can disbelieve only creatures or 
objects, not a combination of both.
Disbelieving a creature includes all gear, equipment, or treasure carried or worn by 
that creature; it does not include other objects that come into contact with that creature, 
such as walls, doors, chairs, etc.
Disbelief is not automatic; it requires an extreme effort. To successfully disbelieve, the 
priest must make a saving throw vs. paralyzation. A successful save means the priest has 
disbelieved; an unsuccessful check means that the spell has failed and the priest has not 
convinced himself of the creatures' or objects' non-existence.
While this spell is in effect, the DM must record any damage suffered by the priest 
from disbelieved creatures. When the spell ends, the caster makes a saving throw vs. 
spell. If the saving throw is successful, the priest suffers only one-eighth of any damage 
inflicted by the creatures (round all fractions down); if the priest fails the saving throw, 
he suffers one-half of any damage inflicted (round fractions down). 

 Dragonbane (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rounds+1 round/2 levels
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 5'-cube/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell prevents any dragon who fails its saving throw from entering the area of 
effect. The spell affects a cubic area whose sides equal the caster's level times 5 feet; 
thus, a 16th-level caster could affect a cube whose sides each equal 80 feet. The dragon 
can cast spells, blast breath weapon, or hurl missiles (if possible) into the area of effect.
Dragons within the area of effect when the spell is cast are not affected. If such 
dragons leave the area of effect, they must succeed a saving throw to reenter the area.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a dragon scale.
The spell's effectiveness can be greatly increased with the casting of a focus spell. 

 Earthwrack (Alteration)
Sphere: Necromantic, Plant
Range: 20 yards/level of caster
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4+10 years
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 30-foot radius/level of caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes an area of soil to become barren and blighted. Healthy plants
wither and die within 1d4 days of casting. No seed planted there will grow for the 
duration of the spell. Plant-based creatures entering the despoiled area can see the ruin 
and feel an intense "wrongness" within the soil. Each round they remain within the area, 
they suffer 1d4 points of damage.
The blight can be cured using a limited wish, a wish, or by casting a remove curse
spell (at the 12th level of experience) and a plant growth spell simultaneously.
Most druids consider earthwrack an abomination, although some Shadow Circle 
druids use it as last-ditch "scorched earth" vengeance against an unruly hamlet.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.

 Find the Path
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The recipient of this spell can find the shortest, most direct physical route that he is
seeking, be it the way into or out of a locale. The locale can be outdoors or under ground,
a trap, or even a maze spell. Note that the spell works with respect to locales, not objects
or creatures within a locale. Thus, the spell could not find the way to "a forest where a
green dragon lives" or to the location of "a hoard of platinum pieces." The location must
be in the same plane as the caster.
The spell enables the subject to sense the correct direction that will eventually lead him
to his destination, indicating at the appropriate times the exact path to follow or physical
actions to take. For example, with concentration the spell enables the subject to sense trip
wires or the proper word to bypass a glyph. The spell ends when the destination is
reached or when one turn for each caster level has elapsed. The spell frees the subject,
and those with him, from a maze spell in a single round, and will continue to do so as
long as the spell lasts.
Note that this divination is keyed to the caster, not his companions, and that, like the
find traps spell, it does not predict or allow for the actions of creatures.
The spell requires a set of divination counters of the sort favored by the priest--bones,
ivory counters, sticks, carved runes, or whatever.
The reverse spell, lose the path, makes the creature touched totally lost and unable to
find its way for the duration of the spell--although it can be led, of course.

 Fire Seeds
(Conjuration)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd./seed
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: 1/2
The fire seeds spell creates special missiles or timed incendiaries that burn with great
heat. The spell can be cast to create either fire seed missiles or fire seed incendiaries, as
chosen when the spell is cast.

 Fire seed missiles: This casting turns up to four acorns into special grenadelike
missiles that can be hurled up to 40 yards. An attack roll is required to strike the intended
target, and proficiency penalties are considered. Each acorn bursts upon striking any hard
surface, causing 2d8 points of damage and igniting any combustible materials within a
10-foot diameter of the point of impact. If a successful saving throw vs. spell is made, a
creature within the burst area receives only one-half damage, but a creature struck
directly suffers full damage (i.e., no saving throw).

 Fire seed incendiaries: This casting turns up to eight holly berries into special
incendiaries. The holly berries are most often placed, being too light to make effective
missiles. They can be tossed only up to 6 feet away. They burst into flame if the caster is
within 40 yards and speaks a word of command. The berries instantly ignite, causing 1d8
points of damage to any creature and igniting any combustible within a 5-foot-diameter
burst area. Creatures within the area that successfully save vs. spell suffer half damage.
All fire seeds lose their power after a duration equal to one turn per experience level of
the caster--e.g., the seeds of a 13th-level caster remain potent for a maximum of 13 turns
after their creation.
No other material components beyond acorns or holly berries are needed for this spell.

 Forbiddance
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6 rds.
Area of Effect: 60-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: Special
This spell can be used to secure a consecrated area (see the Dungeon Master Guide).
The spell seals the area from teleportation, plane shifting, and ethereal penetration. At the
option of the caster, the ward can be locked by a password, in which case it can be
entered only by those speaking the proper words. Otherwise, the effect on those entering
the enchanted area is based on their alignment, relative to the caster's. The most severe
penalty is used.
 Alignment identical: No effect. If password locked, cannot enter area unless password
is known (no saving throw).
 Alignment different with respect to law and chaos: Save vs. spell to enter the area;
if failed, suffer 2d6 points of damage. If password locked, cannot enter unless password
is known.
 Alignment different with respect to good and evil: Save vs. spell to enter this area; if
failed, suffer 4d6 points of damage. If word locked, cannot enter unless password is
known. The attempt does cause damage if the save is failed.
Once a saving throw is failed, an intruder cannot enter the forbidden area until the spell
ceases. The ward cannot be dispelled by a caster of lesser level than the one who
established it. Intruders who enter by rolling successful saving throws feel uneasy and
tense, despite their success.
In addition to the priest's holy symbol, components include holy water and rare
incenses worth at least 1,000 gp per 60-foot cube. If a password lock is desired, this also
requires the burning of rare incenses worth at least 5,000 gp per 60-foot cube.

 Gravity Variation (Alteration) 
Sphere: War
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/3 levels
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: 120-yard x 120-yard square
Saving Throw: None
This spell changes the characteristics of a square region of terrain. The area can be no 
more than 120 yards on a side. The priest can effectively turn a flat plain into a slope of 
any direction, or may flatten an existing slope. The spell does not allow the priest to alter 
the pull of gravity, however.
This spell lets the priest create or negate a height differential of as much as 20 feet (a 
2" slope in BATTLE SYSTEM™ rules measurements) within the area of effect. This can 
have various consequences; the best way to discuss the effects is by example.
Example 1: Two units face each other on a flat plain. The priest can alter the slope of 
the terrain so that one unit is 2" of elevation higher than the other. The unit that is upslope 
gains the combat benefits for higher ground, and the unit that is downslope must pay the 
movement cost for moving uphill if it wishes to approach the other unit.
Example 2: One unit is on flat terrain; another unit, 6" away, is on a hill of 2" 
elevation. Using this spell, the priest can effectively eliminate this difference in elevation 
(raising the low ground or lowering the high ground). All combat and movement 
involving these two units is then conducted as if there were no elevation difference (i.e., 
no movement penalty, no combat benefit for higher ground, etc.). Alternatively, the priest 
could increase the height differential by 2". Combat and movement would now be 
conducted as if the total difference in elevation were 4".
Example 3: A unit faces a hill of 3" elevation. The priest casts gravity variation, 
decreasing the effective elevation of the hill to 1". The unit pays a lower movement point 
cost to climb the hill. Alternatively, if the unit facing the hill were an enemy unit, the 
priest could increase the effective elevation to 5".
The priest must specify the degree and direction of change at the moment of casting. 
These parameters cannot be changed while the spell remains in effect.
Gravity variation can have dramatic effects on siege engines and towers. Most siege 
engines can be moved only on the most gentle of slopes. By raising or lowering the 
effective elevation of siege engines by 2", the priest can totally immobilize them by 
positioning them on a slope too steep to negotiate. In the case of siege towers, there is a 
50% chance that the structures will topple over (totally destroying them).
The material component is a tiny plumb bob; the plumb line must be made of 
platinum wire while the bob itself must be a gem of at least 1,000 gp value. The device is 
consumed in the casting.

 Group Mind (Divination, Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn+1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 30-yard-diameter circle
Saving Throw: None
This spell is a deeper and more extensive version of rapport, in that it lets the priest 
communicate silently and instantly with several willing subjects. The number of subjects 
(in addition to the priest) depends on the caster's level:

Level        | Number of participants 
13 and below |  2 
14-16        |  4 
17           |  6 
18           |  7 
19+          |  8 

As with rapport, the spell lets the participants share thoughts, emotions, and 
memories. Each participant sees, hears, and otherwise senses everything experienced by 
the other, although such "vicarious" experiences feel weak and cannot be mistaken for 
direct sensations. Participants can shut off these experiences at will if they find them 
confusing or distracting.
The participants can share such personal concepts as plans, hopes, and fears, although 
they cannot communicate complex or detailed information. It is impossible to 
communicate the procedure for casting a spell or picking a lock.
Communication through group mind is approximately 30 times faster than verbal 
communication. The priest can maintain only one group mind spell at any time; thus, he 
cannot communicate with multiple groups.
This spell cannot be used on unwilling subjects. 

 Heal
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The very potent heal spell enables the priest to wipe away disease and injury in the
creature who receives the benefits of the spell. It completely cures all diseases or
blindness of the recipient and heals all points of damage suffered due to wounds or
injury. It dispels a feeblemind spell. It cures those mental disorders caused by spells or
injury to the brain. Naturally, the effects can be negated by later wounds, injuries, and
diseases.
The reverse, harm, infects the victim with a disease and causes loss of all but 1d4 hit
points, if a successful touch is inflicted. For creatures that are not affected by the heal or
harm spell, see the cure light wounds spell.

 Heroes' Feast
(Evocation)
Sphere: Creation
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 feaster/level Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the priest to bring forth a great feast that serves as many creatures as
the priest has levels of experience. The spell creates a magnificent table, chairs, service,
and all the necessary food and drink. The feast takes one full hour to consume, and the
beneficial effects do not set in until after this hour is over. Those partaking of the feast
are cured of all diseases, are immune to poison for 12 hours, and are healed of 1d4+4
points of damage after imbibing the nectarlike beverage that is part of the feast. The
ambrosialike food that is consumed is equal to a bless spell that lasts for 12 hours. Also,
during this same period, the people who consumed the feast are immune to fear,
hopelessness, and panic. If the feast is interrupted for any reason, the spell is ruined and
all effects of the spell are negated.
The material components of the spell are the priest's holy symbol and specially
fermented honey taken from the cells of bee larvae destined for royal status.

 Ivy Siege (Enchantment)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 90 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 6 turns
Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 1 building or similar structure
Saving Throw: Special
The ivy siege spell must be cast upon a stone or brick building constructed upon the 
earth; flying castles and the like remain unaffected. Immediately after casting, ivy begins 
to grow at a fantastic rate, climbing from the ground up the building's walls. At the end of 
one turn, the ivy has climbed the walls. At the end of the second turn, green creepers have 
covered the structure. On the third turn, the ivy has deepened to a black-green and begins 
to squeeze the building.
Starting on the third turn and every turn thereafter, the building must make a saving 
throw vs. siege damage, as if attacked by a small catapult (DMG, p. 76). Two cubic feet 
of the building crumbles away for each point by which the saving throw misses each turn. 
This cycle continues until the spell's duration expires or the building is destroyed. The ivy 
rots away instantly at the spell's end.
A druid can cast only one ivy siege per building at a time. After the ivy has rotted 
away, the druid may cast the spell on the same building again. However, multiple druids 
can cast several ivy siege spells on the same building. In the case of a large, 
interconnected series of buildings (like a castle), each casting affects only a single tower, 
keep, or wall segment, to a maximum of 1,000 cubic feet per level of the caster.
The DM may choose to prohibit arctic and desert druids from using this spell if they 
are not familiar with ivy.
The material component is an ivy leaf.

 Land of Stability (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10-foot-cube/level
Saving Throw: None
Land of stability protects the area of effect and all creatures and objects within it from 
the following natural disasters:
•Earthquakes--vibrations do not affect the warded area and fissures will not open 
beneath the warded area;
•Floods--the warded area remains dry, even if submerged;
•Windstorms--the warded area suffers no damage from strong winds and objects 
cannot be blown into the warded area;
•Lava and ash eruptions--lava and ash flow around the warded area; and
•Avalanches--stones and snow will not fall on the warded area.
Land of stability offers no protection against magically-generated disasters or spells 
that duplicate natural disasters. Disasters in progress in the area when the spell is cast are 
not affected.
This spell affects a cubic area whose sides equal the caster's level times 10 feet; thus, 
a 15th-level caster could affect a 150' x 150' x 150' cube.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a pinch of volcanic ash. 

 Legal Thoughts (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
A priest casting this spell forces the victim of the spell to follow one specific law. The 
priest may choose any law prevalent in the area in which the priest and the victim 
currently reside. Thus, if a city has no laws about murder, the priest cannot command the 
person not to kill.
The victim of the spell is forced to obey the letter of the law to the best of his ability. 
Thus, if a victim were commanded not to commit murder, he would go to any length to 
avoid murdering someone.
Since the essence of this spell is tied to legal (and not moral) interpretation, characters 
may find loopholes that will allow them to work around the law in specific cases or to 
ignore the law in light of extenuating circumstances.
When casting the spell, the priest must speak the law to the recipient in such a way 
that he can hear it. The victim is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect. If 
the save is failed, the victim will never willingly violate the stated law as long as the spell 
is in effect.
Legal thoughts can be negated by dispel magic. The victim of this spell never 
perceives anything wrong with adhering to the law, and therefore never seeks to have the 
spell removed. 

 Liveoak
(Enchantment)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 oak tree Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to charm a healthy oak tree (or other type if the DM
allows) to cause it to serve as a protector. The spell can be cast on a single tree at a time.
While a liveoak spell cast by a particular caster is in effect, he cannot cast another such
spell. The tree upon which the spell is cast must be within 10 feet of the caster's dwelling
place, within a place sacred to the caster, or within 100 yards of something that the caster
wishes to guard or protect.
The liveoak spell can be cast upon a healthy tree of small, medium, or large size,
according to desire and availability. A triggering phrase of up to maximum of one word
per level of the spellcaster is then placed upon the targeted oak. For instance, "Attack any
persons who come near without first saying sacred mistletoe" is an 11-word trigger
phrase that could be used by a caster of 11th level or higher casting the spell. The liveoak
spell triggers the tree into animating as a treant of equivalent size, an Armor Class of 0
and with two attacks per round, but with only a 30-feet-per-round movement rate.

Tree Size | Height    | Hit Dice | Damage per Attack
Small     | 12' - 14' | 7-8      |  2d8
Medium    | 16' - 19' | 9-10     |  3d6
Large     | 20' - 23'+| 11-12    |  4d6

A tree enchanted by this spell radiates a magical aura (if checked for), and can be
returned to normal by a successful casting of a dispel magic spell, or upon the desire of
the caster who enchanted it. If dispelled, the tree takes root immediately. If released by
the caster, it tries to return to its original location before taking root. Damage to the tree
can be healed with a plant growth spell, which restores 3d4 points of damage. A plant
growth spell used in this fashion does not increase the size or hit points of the liveoak
beyond the original value.
The caster needs his holy symbol to cast this spell.

 Monster Mount (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 20-foot radius circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell compels one or more living creatures to serve as mounts for the caster and 
his companions. The spell affects up to 10 Hit Dice or levels of creatures with 
Intelligence of 4 or lower. Creatures used as mounts must be of suitable size to carry at 
least one rider; smaller creatures can be used as pack animals.
Each intended mount receives a saving throw vs. spell. Creatures failing their rolls 
become docile and obedient, allowing riders to mount them, and moving at the speed and 
direction indicated by the caster.
To maintain the enchantment, the caster must remain within 10 yards of one of the 
affected creatures, and each affected creature must remain within 10 yards of another. 
The affected creatures will do nothing for the caster other than carrying riders and gear; 
they will not fight (although they will fight to defend themselves), nor will they 
intentionally endanger themselves. Any overtly hostile act by the caster or a rider against 
any mount breaks the enchantment for all the mounts. 
When the enchantment ends or is broken, the creatures take no action for one round, 
then behave as their natural instincts direct. 

 Part Water
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 20 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 3 ft./level x Saving Throw: None
20 yds./level x 30 yds.
By employing a part water spell, the priest is able to cause water or similar liquid to
move apart, thus forming a trough. The depth and length of the trough created by the
spell depends on the level of the priest. A trough 3 feet deep per caster level, by 30 yards
wide, by 20 yards long per level is created. Thus at 12th level, the priest would part water
36 feet deep by 30 yards wide by 240 yards long. The trough remains as long as the spell
lasts or until the priest who cast it opts to end its effects. Existing currents appear to flow
through the parted water, although swimming creatures and physical objects such as
boats do not enter the rift without strenuous and deliberate effort. If cast underwater, this
spell creates an air cylinder of appropriate length and diameter. If cast directly on a water
elemental or other water-based creature, the creature suffers 48 points of damage and
must roll a successful saving throw vs. spell or flee in panic for 3d4 rounds.
The material component of this spell is the priest's holy symbol.

 Physical Mirror (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4+8 rounds
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes a localized folding of space. The folded space takes the form of an 
invisible disk up to 20 feet in diameter. Any missile weapon or spell that intersects this 
disk is instantaneously reversed in direction. Melee factors such as speed, range, and 
damage are unaffected; the direction of the object or force is simply rotated through a 180 
degree arc. The sender of the spell or missile finds himself the target of his own attack.
The physical mirror operates from only one direction; that is, only one side of the 
mirror reflects attacks. The caster of the mirror may direct spells and missile attacks 
normally through the space occupied by the mirror.
In the case of physical attacks, the attacker must roll to hit himself (without the armor 
class benefits of Dexterity or shield). Spells turned back may require the caster to make a 
saving throw vs. his own spell. In both of these cases, range is important. If the distance 
between the initiator of the attack and the physical mirror is more than twice the range of 
the attack, the attacker is safe; the attack has insufficient range to travel from the attacker 
to the mirror and back again.
When the priest casts the spell, he must specify the location and orientation of the 
physical mirror disk. Once it is created, the disk cannot be moved.
If two physical mirror disks touch or intersect, they destructively interact and both 
immediately vanish. The resulting "ripples" in the space-time continuum are exceedingly 
destructive and inflict 3d10 hit points of damage on any creature within 35 yards (a 
saving throw is allowed for half-damage). This always includes the casters of the physical 
mirror spells.
The material component is a tiny mirror of polished platinum, worth at least 500 gp.

 Reverse Time (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1-4 rounds
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is similar to the 9th-level wizard spell time stop. When reverse time is cast, 
time stops within a 30-foot diameter of the subject. All creatures and items in the area of 
effect stand motionless, rivers stop running, and arrows hang suspended in the air. Any 
creature, person, or object entering the area of effect is likewise frozen in time. The caster 
is affected if he is within the area of effect, unless he is the subject of the spell.
An unwilling subject is allowed a saving throw vs. spell; if successful, the spell is 
immediately negated. Otherwise, the victim is forced to relive all the actions taken in the 
previous 1-4 rounds in reverse. Beginning with the most recent round, the subject moves 
backward, arrows fired by the subject return to his bow, and so on. All effects of these 
actions are negated. At the end of the spell's duration, normal time resumes and all 
creatures immediately continue their activities, picking up right where they had stopped.
Consider the following example. A party is battling a spellcasting red dragon. In the 
first round, the dragon breathes fire, roasting the party's wizard. The rest of the group 
attacks and injures the dragon. On the second round, the dragon bites and kills the group's 
thief. More damage is caused to the beast, but it is still alive in the third round, when it 
uses magic missile to kill the ranger. At this point, the priest casts reverse time on the 
beast. Fortunately, it fails its saving throw and is forced to reverse the last four rounds. 
While everyone else freezes, the dragon goes into reverse. The magic missiles zoom back 
to the dragon (and it regains the ability to cast that spell), it "unbites" the thief (removing 
that damage from the character), and then inhales its fiery breath (leaving the roasted 
wizard alive and uncooked). The dragon is then reversed through one more round--the 
round before it encounterd the party. The spell then ends and actions resume.
The dragon must now roll for surprise since it is encountering the party for the first 
time. The party is immune to surprise, since it was fighting the beast previously. All 
damage suffered by the dragon remains, since these actions were caused by the group and 
not the beast.
The material component is an etched silver arrow bent into a circle. The arrow must 
be no more than 3 inches long and worth no less than 500 gp. The arrow is destroyed in 
the casting. 

 Seclusion (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3d12 rounds+4 rounds/level
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell encloses one individual in an extradimensional space. Creatures to be 
affected must be of size M or smaller. The space can contain only one creature, 
regardless of size. The priest may use the spell on himself or any creature he touches. 
Unwilling targets are allowed a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the entrapment.
While inside the space, the enclosed character is invisible and totally undetectable by 
any form of scrying. Powerful magic such as contact other plane will indicate that the 
character is "elsewhere," but will give no more information.
The creature within the extradimensional space can see and hear everything that 
occurs around him. However, he cannot cast spells, and no action of his can affect anyone 
or anything in the "real world."
While occupied, the extradimensional space is totally immobile. If the caster chooses 
to occupy the space, he can pass in and out of the space at will. Other creatures can leave 
or reenter the space only if the caster allows it. To an outside observer, an enclosed 
character who exits the space simply appears from nowhere.
If the space is occupied when the spell terminates, the occupant is immediately 
ejected back into the real world and suffers 1d6 hit points of damage in the process.
Any time the extradimensional space is empty, or when the occupant is someone 
other than the priest, the space follows the priest around. Thus, the priest may seclude a 
comrade in the extradimensional space, walk past some guards into a building, then 
release the comrade.
If any other form of extradimensional space (such as a bag of holding ) is taken into 
the space created by seclusion, both spaces are ruptured and all contents are expelled onto 
the Astral plane. Extradimensional manipulation can temporarily prevent this. 
The material components are a tiny crystal box of the finest workmanship (worth at 
least 1,500 gp) and a gem of at least 250 gp value. The gem is consumed in the casting; 
the box is not. 

 Skip Day (Invocation/Evocation) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10-foot radius
Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast, all persons and intelligent creatures within 10 feet of the 
caster are instantly transported 24 hours into the future. Creatures outside the area of 
effect will believe that the affected characters have disappeared. Unwilling creatures can 
attempt a saving throw vs. spell to resist the effect of skip day.
No time passes for creatures affected by skip day; they are in the exact condition that 
they were in before the spell was cast. They are fatigued, have recovered no hit points, 
and carry the same spells. Wizards must wait for actual time to pass before they can 
memorize spells.
The affected creatures remain in the same location as they were before skip day was 
cast. Their immediate environment is likely to have changed; for instance, fires have 
burned out, enemies who were attacking have departed, and weather has changed for 
better or worse.
Although skip day is a possible substitute for teleporting out of a dangerous situation, 
it is not without risk; characters could reappear in a situation more threatening than the 
one they left behind (for instance, a forest fire may have started or a pack of hungry 
wolves may have arrived). 

 Sol's Searing Orb (Invocation) 
Sphere: Sun
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One gem
Saving Throw: Special
This spell must be cast upon a topaz. When the spell is complete, the stone glows 
with an inner light. The gem must be immediately thrown at an opponent, for it quickly 
becomes too hot to hold. (The acts of casting and throwing occur in the same round.) It is 
not possible for the priest to give the stone to another character to throw.
The stone can be hurled up to 30 yards. The priest must roll normally to hit; he gains 
a +3 bonus to his attack roll and suffers no penalty for nonweapon proficiency. In 
addition, the glowing gem is considered a +3 weapon for determining whether a creature 
can be struck (creatures hit only by magical weapons, for example). There is no damage 
bonus, however.
When it hits, the gem bursts with a brilliant, searing flash that causes 6d6 points of 
fire damage to the target and blinds him for 1d6 rounds. The victim is allowed a saving 
throw vs. spell. If successful, only half damage is sustained and the target is not blinded. 
Undead creatures suffer 12d6 points of damage and are blinded for 2d6 rounds (if 
applicable) if their save is failed. They receive 6d6 points of damage and are blinded for 
1d6 rounds if the save is successful.
If the gem misses its target, it explodes immediately, causing 3d6 points of damage 
(or 6d6 against undead) to all creatures within a 3' radius. It blinds them for 1d3 rounds 
(1d6 rounds vs. undead). All victims are allowed a saving throw vs. spell, with success 
indicating half damage and no blindness. The DM should use the rules for grenade-like 
missiles found in the Dungeon Master Guide for determining where the stone hits. 
The material component is a topaz gemstone worth at least 500 gp. 

 Speak With Monsters
(Alteration)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When cast, the speak with monsters spell enables the priest to converse with any type
of creature that has any form of communicative ability (including empathic, tactile,
pheromonic, etc.). That is, the monster understands, in its own language or equivalent,
the intent of what is said to it by the priest and vice versa. The creature thus spoken to is
checked by the DM to determine a reaction. All creatures of the same type as that chosen
by the priest can likewise understand if they are within range. The priest can speak to
different types of creatures during the spell duration, but he must speak separately to each
type. The spell lasts for two rounds per caster level.

 Spiritual Wrath (Invocation) 
Sphere: Combat
Range: 300 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: 1/2
This powerful cooperative spell is rarely invoked since it requires the concerted effort 
of six or more high-level priests. The casting effort severely weakens the priests, 
discouraging casual use of this spell.
To cast the spell, six or more priests must be within a 15-foot radius. Each priest must 
cast spiritual wrath at the same time. Before beginning the spell, the priests must decide 
upon the area of effect. The spell causes 10d6+1d6 points of damage per priest casting 
the spell. (The minimum damage, therefore, is 16d6.) Creatures within the area of effect 
are allowed a saving throw vs. spell to reduce the damage to half.
The spell strikes as a great wave of force that descends from the sky. Small objects 
must save vs. crushing blow. Structures suffer damage as if hit by a heavy catapult 
(2d12). The force of this spell often raises a great cloud of dirt and dust, obscuring the 
area for 1d4+1 rounds.
The spell's area of effect is determined by the number of casters. Each priest 
contributes 10 feet to the radius of the spell. Six casters would create a spell with a radius 
of 60 feet. No more than twelve casters can cooperate to cast this spell (maximum of 
22d6 damage and a 120-foot radius area of effect). This converts to an 8-inch circle in the 
BATTLESYSTEM™ rules ground scale.
The spell is difficult to cast, physically taxing the spellcasters so much that each 
caster suffers 3d10 points of damage from the effort. There is no saving throw allowed to 
avoid this damage. 

 Stone Tell
(Divination)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth), Divination
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 cu. yd. Saving Throw: None
When the priest casts a stone tell spell upon an area, the very stones speak and relate to
the caster who or what has touched them as well as revealing what is covered, concealed,
or simply behind them. The stones relate complete descriptions, if asked. Note that a
stone's perspective, perception, and knowledge may hinder this divination. Such details,
if any, are decided by the DM.
The material components for this spell are a drop of mercury and a bit of clay.

 The Great Circle (Abjuration) Reversible 
Sphere: Sun
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 6 turns
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
The great circle is a powerful cooperative spell that can be used only by four or more 
priests, each casting the spell simultaneously. Because of the nature of this spell and its 
casting time, it is often used to cleanse grounds in preparation for the construction of a 
temple or sanctuary.
When casting the great circle, the priests stand in a circle of no more than 20-foot 
diameter. Each faces inward; when the spell is completed, each priest faces outward, 
directing the energy of the spell.
When the casting is complete, the spell takes the form of a radiant halo of golden 
light 20 feet above the ground. This halo quickly expands in a shimmering wave. It can 
pass through objects, with small arcs of the halo disappearing momentarily and 
reappearing on the far side. As the halo moves, it generates a high-pitched hum that 
varies in pitch, almost like a chorus. The halo moves slowly at first, but builds speed, 
reaching its maximum range at the end of one round.
The radius of the golden halo is dependent on the number of priests casting the spell. 
Each priest adds 60 feet to the radius. Thus, four priests could generate a halo that 
extends 240 feet in all directions from the circle of priests. Theoretically, there is no limit 
to the number of priests who may contribute to this spell, but the need for the priests to be 
within a 20-foot diameter circle sets a practical limit of 20 casters.
The halo is pure energy tapped from the Positive Material plane. It causes harm to 
undead and evil beings within the area of effect. Undead creatures of 8 or fewer hit dice 
are instantly destroyed and are not allowed a saving throw to avoid the effect. More 
powerful undead suffer 1d8 points of damage per caster. A successful saving throw vs. 
death magic reduces this damage to half. Creatures of evil alignment suffer 1d6 points of 
damage per caster (a saving throw is allowed for half-damage).
The reverse of this spell, the black circle, creates a ring of shimmering black energy. 
Paladins and priests of good alignment suffer 1d10 points of damage per priest in the 
circle. All other good creatures suffer 1d4 points of damage per caster. Affected creatures 
are allowed a saving throw vs. death magic to reduce the damage to one-half. 

 Transmute Water to Dust
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Water, Earth)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 cu. yd./level Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is cast, the subject area instantly undergoes a change from liquid to
powdery dust. Note that if the water is already muddy, the area of effect is doubled, while
if wet mud is present, the area of effect is quadrupled. If water remains in contact with
the transmuted dust, the former quickly permeates the latter, turning the dust into silty
mud. If there is not a sufficient quantity of water to cause that effect, it simply soaks or
dampens the dust accordingly.
Only the liquid actually in the area of effect at the moment of spellcasting is affected.
Potions that contain water as a component part are rendered useless. Living creatures are
unaffected, except for those native to the elemental plane of Water. Such creatures must
roll a successful saving throws vs. death or be slain. However, only one such creature can
be affected by any single casting of this spell, regardless of the creature's size or the size
of the spell's area of effect.
The reverse of this spell is simply a very high-powered create water spell that requires
a pinch of normal dust as an additional material component.
For either usage of the spell, other components required are diamond dust of at least
500 gp value, a bit of sea shell, and the caster's holy symbol.

 Transport Via Plants
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster is able to enter any plant (human-sized or larger) and
pass any distance to a plant of the same species in a single round, regardless of the
distance separating the two. The entry plant must be alive. The destination plant need not
be familiar to the caster, but it also must be alive. If the caster is uncertain of the
destination plant, he need merely determine direction and distance, and the transport via
plants spell moves him as close as possible to the desired location. There is a 20%
chance, reduced by 1% per level of experience of the caster, that the transport delivers the
caster to a similar species of plant from 1 to 100 miles away from the desired destination
plant. If a particular destination plant is desired, but the plant is not living, the spell fails
and the caster must come forth from the entrance plant within 24 hours. Note that this
spell does not function with plantlike creatures such as shambling mounds, treants, etc.
The destruction of an occupied plant slays the caster (see the plant door spell).

 Turn Wood
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 20 ft./level x 120 ft. Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, waves of force roll forth from the caster, moving in the
direction he faces and causing all wooden objects in the path of the spell to be pushed
away from the caster to the limit of the area of effect. Wooden objects above 3 inches in
diameter that are fixed firmly are not affected, but loose objects (movable mantles, siege
towers, etc.) move back. Objects less than 3 inches in diameter that are fixed splinter and
break, and the pieces move with the wave of force. Thus, objects such as wooden shields,
spears, wooden weapon shafts and hafts, and arrows and bolts are pushed back, dragging
those carrying them with them. If a spear is planted to prevent this forced movement, it
splinters. Even magical items with wooden sections are turned, although an anti-magic
shell blocks the effects. A successful dispel magic spell ends the effect. Otherwise, the
turn wood spell lasts for one round for each experience level of the caster.
The waves of force continue to sweep down the set path for the spell's duration,
pushing back wooden objects in the area of effect at a rate of 40 feet per melee round.
The length of the path is 20 feet per level of the caster. Thus if a 14th-level priest casts a
turn wood spell, the area of effect is 120 feet wide by 280 feet long, and the spell lasts 14
rounds. After casting the spell, the path is set and the caster can then do other things or go
elsewhere without affecting the spell's power.

 Wall of Thorns
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Plant, Creation
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: One 10-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
The wall of thorns spell creates a barrier of very tough, pliable, tangled brush bearing
needle-sharp thorns as long as a person's finger. Any creature breaking through (or
crashing into) the wall of thorns suffers 8 points of damage, plus an additional amount of
damage equal to the creature's AC. Negative ACs subtract from the base 8 points of
damage, but no adjustment is made for Dexterity. Any creature within the area of effect
of the spell when it is cast, crashes into the wall of thorns and must break through to
move. The damage is based on each 10-foot thickness of the barrier.
If the wall of thorns is chopped at, it takes at least four turns to cut a path through a 10-
foot thickness. Normal fire cannot harm the barrier, but magical fires burn away the
barrier in two turns, creating a wall of fire effect while doing so (see wall of fire spell). In
this case, the cool side of the wall is that closest to the caster of the thorn wall.
The nearest edge of the wall of thorns appears up to 80 yards distant from the caster, as
he desires. The spell's duration is one turn for each level of experience of the caster, and
it covers one 10-foot cube per level of the caster in whatever shape the caster desires.
Thus a 14th-level caster could create a wall of thorns up to 70 feet long by 20 feet high
(or deep) by 10 feet deep (or high), a 10-foot-high by 10-foot-wide by 140-foot-long wall
to block a dungeon passage, or any other sort of shape that suited his needs. The caster
can also create a wall of 5-foot thickness, which inflicts half damage but can be doubled
in one of the other dimensions. Note that those with the ability to pass through overgrown
areas are not hindered by this barrier. The caster can dismiss the barrier on command.

 Weather Summoning
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By this spell, the caster calls forth weather appropriate to the climate and season of the
area he is in. Thus, in spring a tornado, thunderstorm, sleet storm, or hot weather could be
summoned. In summer a torrential rain, heat wave, hail storm, etc., can be called for. In
autumn, hot or cold weather, fog, sleet, etc., could be summoned. Winter enables great
cold, blizzard, or thaw conditions to be summoned. Hurricane-force winds can be
summoned near coastal regions in the later winter or early spring. The summoned
weather is not under the control of the caster. It might last but a single turn, in the case of
a tornado, or for hours or even days in other cases. The area of effect likewise varies from
about 1 square mile to 100 square miles. Note that several casters can act in concert to
greatly affect weather, controlling winds, and working jointly to summon very extreme
weather conditions.
Within four turns after the spell is cast, the trend of the weather to come is apparent--
e.g., clearing skies, gusts of warm or hot air, a chill breeze, overcast skies, etc.
Summoned weather arrives 1d12+5 turns after the spell is cast. Note that the new weather
condition cannot be changed by the caster once it has been summoned. Once the weather
is fully summoned, it cannot be dispelled. If the summoning is successfully dispelled
before it has been completed, the weather slowly reverts to its original condition.

 Word of Recall
(Alteration)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
The word of recall spell takes the priest instantly back to his sanctuary when the word
is uttered. The sanctuary must be specifically designated in advance by the priest and
must be a well-known place. The actual point of arrival is a designated area no larger
than 10' x 10'. The priest can be transported any distance, from above or below ground.
Transportation by the word of recall spell is safe within a plane, but for each plane the
priest is removed, there is a 10% cumulative chance that the priest is irrevocably lost. The
priest is able to transport, in addition to himself, 25 pounds of weight per experience
level. Thus, a 15th-level priest could transport his person and an additional 375 pounds.
This extra matter can be equipment, treasure, or even living material, such as another
person. Exceeding this limit causes the spell to fail. Note that unusually strong physical
fields, such as magnetic or gravitational forces, or even magical applications can, at the
DM's option, make the use of this spell hazardous or impossible.