Spells work file Tier 4

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

  Fourth-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 4 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 

 Adamantite Mace
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Caster’s weapon Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: d12
Sensory: Small visual Critical: Medium (1 hit) 
 impact
By means of this spell, the priest transmutes his own cudgel, mace, or staff into an 
enchanted weapon of adamantite, the most magical mineral known. The adamantite mace 
gains a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls, but it can strike creatures normally hit only 
by +4 or better weapons. As an incarnation of elemental earth, the mace inflicts up to 
twice the damage (roll twice the required damage dice) against creatures of elemental air 
or magical avians such as griffons, perytons, pegasi, and winged baatezu or tanar’ri. The 
adamantite mace retains its special properties for one round per level of experience of the 
caster.
The material component is a special powder made from a diamond worth 100 gp, 
sprinkled over the weapon.

 Charm Monster
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 or more creatures Saving Throw: Neg.
in 20-ft. radius
This spell is similar to a charm person spell, but it can affect any living creature--or
several low-level creatures. The spell affects 2d4 Hit Dice or levels of creatures, although
it only affects one creature of 4 or more Hit Dice or levels, regardless of the number
rolled.
All possible subjects receive saving throws vs. spell, adjusted for Wisdom. Any
damage inflicted by the caster or his allies in the round of casting grants the wounded
creature another saving throw at a bonus of +1 per point of damage received. Any
affected creature regards the spellcaster as friendly, an ally or companion to be treated
well or guarded from harm. If communication is possible, the charmed creature follows
reasonable requests, instructions, or orders most faithfully (see the suggestion spell). If
communication is not possible, the creature does not harm the caster, but others in the
vicinity may be subject to its intentions, hostile or otherwise. Any overtly hostile act by
the caster breaks the spell, or at the very least allows a new saving throw against the
charm. Affected creatures eventually come out from under the influence of the spell. This
is a function of the creature's level (i.e., its Hit Dice).
 
Monster Level    |  % Chance Per Week
or Hit Dice      |  of Breaking Spell
-----------------|--------------------
1st or up to 2   |       5%
2nd or up to 3+2 |      10%
3rd or up to 4+4 |      15%
4th or up to 6   |      25%
5th or up to 7+2 |      35%
6th or up to 8+4 |      45%
7th or up to 10  |      60%
8th or up to 12  |      75%
9th or over 12   |      90%

The exact day of the week and time of day is secretly determined by the DM.

 Confusion
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Up to 60-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes confusion in one or more creatures within the area, creating
indecision and the inability to take effective action. The spell affects 1d4 creatures, plus
one creature per caster level. These creatures are allowed saving throws vs. spell with -2
penalties, adjusted for Wisdom. Those successfully saving are unaffected by the spell.
Confused creatures react as follows:

D10 Roll         |                      Action
-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------
 1               | Wander away (unless prevented) for duration of spell
2-6              | Stand confused for one round (then roll again)
7-9              | Attack nearest creature for one round (then roll again)
10               | Act normally for one round (then roll again)

The spell lasts for two rounds plus one round for each level of the caster. Those who
fail are checked by the DM for actions each round for the duration of the spell, or until
the "wander away for the duration of the spell" result occurs.
Wandering creatures move as far from the caster as possible, according to their most
typical mode of movement (characters walk, fish swim, bats fly, etc.). Saving throws and
actions are checked at the beginning of each round. Any confused creature that is
attacked perceives the attacker as an enemy and acts according to its basic nature.
If there are many creatures involved, the DM may decide to assume average results.
For example, if there are 16 orcs affected and 25% could be expected to make the saving
throw, then four are assumed to have succeeded. Out of the other 12, one wanders away,
four attack the nearest creature, six stand confused, and the last acts normally but must
check next round. Since the orcs are not near the party, the DM decides that two attacking
the nearest creature attack each other, one attacks an orc that saved, and one attacks a
confused orc, which strikes back. The next round, the base is 11 orcs, since four
originally saved and one wandered off. Another one wanders off, five stand confused,
four attack, and one acts normally.
The material component is a set of three nut shells.

 Conjure Cabinet 
(Conjuration) 
Level: 4
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This is a very special spell created specifically for the bard class. Before this spell can 
be used, the bard must have a special cabinet made. It must be of the highest quality, 
worth at least 1,000 gold pieces. It can be any size up to 4 feet wide by 4 feet deep by 8 
feet high.
Once the cabinet is made, this spell must be cast upon it and the cabinet must be 
named. At any later date, the bard can cast this spell and the cabinet temporarily teleports 
to the bard's current location. The cabinet carries with it any contents that are of a 
performing nature usable by the bard. (For example, it might contain musical 
instruments, cleaning tools, a playing stool, etc., for a True Bard. It might be lined with 
throwing daggers, rapiers {for sword swallowing}, and blindfolds for a Blade).
When the cabinet teleports to the bard, a percentile die must be rolled. On a 01-04, it 
appears 2d20 feet in the air and falls, destroying itself (but its contents are recoverable). 
On a roll of 99-00, it teleports into the ground and is destroyed. Otherwise, it is safe.
The cabinet remains for the duration of the spell or until the bard speaks the cabinet's 
name. It then teleports safely back to its previous location, along with any carried items 
of a performing nature usable by the bard.
A bard may have only one such cabinet at a time. The teleport will not carry the 
cabinet to another plane. If items of a nonperforming nature are left in the cabinet, then 
the cabinet will not teleport.

 Conjure Elemental-Kin
(Conjuration/Summoning, all Elemental, Geometry)
Range: 60 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium tactile Critical: None
Like the conjure elemental spell, this summoning can be used to summon a 
creature from one of the four elemental planes—a sylph from the plane of Air, a pech or 
sandling from the plane of Earth, a fire snake from the plane of Fire, or a nereid or water 
weird from the plane of Water. The wizard must decide which elemental-kin he will 
conjure when he memorizes the spell since the components and procedures are different 
for each. An elemental specialist can conjure only from his own element.
Elemental-kin can only be conjured if there is a good amount of their native 
element at hand; a good-sized fire or a body of water is required for those elemental-kin. 
In addition to this and either an aquamarine, amber, ruby or emerald gem worth 1,500 
gold pieces, the wizard must also provide the spell’s material component, which varies by 
element:

Air Elemental-kin: Burning incense
Earth Elemental-kin: Soft clay
Fire Elemental-kin: Sulphur and phosphorus
Water Elemental-kin: Water and sand

The elemental-kin is bound to obey the wizard’s commands and will not turn against him, but it is 
generally annoyed by its summoning and cooperates only as instructed. Given the chance, the creature will 
disappear and return to its home in the elemental planes; in order to prevent this, the wizard must 
concentrate on keeping the creature from leaving. (If the wizard is wounded or grappled, or casts another 
spell, his concentration is broken.) The elemental-kin can be controlled or maintained at a distance of 30 
yards per caster level.
The various elemental-kin creatures are described in detail in the Monstrous 
Manual tome, under the heading Elemental. At the DM’s option, other elemental 
creatures of 4 Hit Dice or less may be summoned with this spell.

 Contagion
(Necromancy)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell causes a major disease and weakness in a creature. The afflicted individual
is immediately stricken with painful and distracting symptoms: boils, blotches, lesions,
seeping abscesses, and so on. Strength, Dexterity, and Charisma are reduced by 2. Attack
rolls are decreased by 2. The effect persists until the character receives a cure disease
spell or spends 1d3 weeks taking a complete rest to recover. Characters ignoring the
contagion for more than a day or so may be susceptible to worse diseases at the discretion
of the DM.

 Detect Scrying
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d6 turns + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 120-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, the wizard immediately becomes aware of any attempt to
observe him by means of clairvoyance, clairaudience, or magic mirror. This also reveals
the use of crystal balls or other magical scrying devices, provided the attempt is within
the area of effect of the spell. Since the spell is centered on the spellcaster, it moves with
him, enabling him to "sweep" areas for the duration of the spell.
When a scrying attempt is detected, the scryer must immediately roll a saving throw. If
this is failed, the identity and general location of the scryer immediately become known
to the wizard who cast this spell. The general location is a direction and significant
landmark close to the scryer. Thus, the caster might learn, "The wizard Sniggel spies on
us from east, under the stairs," or, "You are watched by Asquil in the city of Samarquol."
The material components for this spell are a small piece of mirror and a miniature
brass hearing trumpet.

 Dig
(Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 5-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: Special
A dig spell enables the caster to excavate 125 cubic feet of earth, sand, or mud per
round (i.e., a cubic hole 5 feet on a side). In later rounds the caster can expand an existing
hole or start a new one. The material thrown from the excavation scatters evenly around
the pit. If the wizard continues downward past 20 feet in earth, there is a 15% chance that
the pit collapses. This check is made for every 5 feet dug beyond 20 feet. Sand tends to
collapse after 10 feet, mud fills in and collapses after 5 feet, and quicksand fills in as
rapidly as it is dug.
Any creature at the edge (within 1 foot) of a pit must roll a successful Dexterity check
or fall into the hole. Creatures moving rapidly toward a pit dug immediately before them
must roll a saving throw vs. spell to avoid falling in. Any creature in a pit being
excavated can climb out at a rate decided by the DM. A creature caught in a collapsing
pit must roll a saving throw vs. death to avoid being buried; it escapes the pit if
successful. Tunneling is possible with this spell as long as there is space available for the
material removed. Chances for collapse are doubled and the safe tunneling distance is
half of the safe excavation depth, unless such construction is most carefully braced and
supported.
The spell is also effective against creatures of earth and rock, particularly clay golems
and those from the Elemental Plane of Earth. When cast upon such a creature, it suffers
4d6 points of damage. A successful saving throw vs. spell reduces this damage to half.
To activate the spell, the spellcaster needs a miniature shovel and tiny bucket and must
continue to hold them while each pit is excavated. These items disappear at the
conclusion of the spell.

 Dilation I (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Dilation I allows a wizard to increase the area of effect of any one spell of levels 1-3. 
The area of effect is increased by 25%; thus, a stinking cloud would fill a 25-foot cube, 
while a slow spell would affect creatures in a 50-foot cube. Fractions of feet or yards (as 
appropriate to the spell) are dropped.
Dilation I must be cast immediately prior to the spell to be dilated; if a complete 
round or more elapses, the dilation is wasted. The dilation spell affects only spells which 
have areas of effect defined in feet or yards (numbers of creatures cannot be increased). 
The dilation affects only spells cast by the same wizard. 

 Dimension Door
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of a dimension door spell, the wizard instantly transfers himself up to 30
yards distance per level of experience. This special form of teleportation allows for no
error, and the wizard always arrives at exactly the spot desired--whether by simply
visualizing the area (within spell transfer distance, of course) or by stating direction such
as, "300 yards straight downward," or, "upward to the northwest, 45 degree angle, 420
yards." If the wizard arrives in a place that is already occupied by a solid body, he
remains trapped in the Astral Plane. If distances are stated and the spellcaster arrives with
no support below his feet (i.e., in mid-air), falling and damage result unless further
magical means are employed. All that the wizard wears or carries, subject to a maximum
weight equal to 500 pounds of nonliving matter, or half that amount of living matter, is
transferred with the spellcaster. Recovery from use of a dimension door spell requires one
round.

 Dimensional Anchor
(Alteration)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
When a priest casts this spell, a green ray springs from his outstretched hand and 
unerringly strikes a creature within line of sight and the range of the spell, covering the 
subject with a shimmering emerald field that completely blocks bodily extradimensional 
travel. Forms of movement barred by the dimensional anchor include blinking, dimension 
door, etherealness, gate, phasing, plane shift, maze, shadow walk, teleportation, and 
similar spell-like or psionic abilities. The field persists for one turn plus one round per 
caster level and has no effect other than blocking extradimensional travel. The 
dimensional anchor does not interfere with the movement of creatures in astral form, nor 
does it block extradimensional perception or attack forms such as a basilisk’s gaze.

 Divination Enhancement (Evocation) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: 2 turns+2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a wizard to extend both the duration and range of the wizard eye
spell and any divination spells of levels 1-4. Duration and range are both increased by 
50% for the length of the divination enhancement.
All divination spells cast within the duration of the enhancement are increased. The 
expiration of the enhancement cancels all divination spells in effect. 

 Duplicate (Conjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One object
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates an exact copy of any single item the caster touches. The item to be 
copied must fit inside a 20-foot cube. The spell has no effect on living creatures, 
including undead, nor will it copy magical items. The duplicated item is identical to the 
original in every way--for instance, a duplicated sword can be wielded to inflict damage 
as a normal sword--but detect magic can reveal its true nature and dispel magic can cause 
it to disappear. The duplicated object exists for 1 hour/level of the caster, at which time it 
vanishes; permanency does not affect duplicated items. 
The material component for this spell is a pinch of coal dust.

 Emotion
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V,S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast, the wizard can create a single emotional reaction in the subject
creatures. The following are typical:
1. Courage: This emotion causes the creatures affected to become berserk, fighting
with a +1 bonus to the attack dice, causing +3 points of damage, and temporarily gaining
5 hit points. The recipients fight without shield and regardless of life, never checking
morale. This spell counters (and is countered by) fear.
2. Fear: The affected creatures flee in panic for 2d4 rounds. It counters (and is
countered by) courage.
3. Friendship: The affected creatures react more positively (for example, tolerance
becomes goodwill). It counters (and is countered by) hate.
4. Happiness: This effect creates joy and a feeling of complacent well-being, adding
+4 to all reaction rolls and making attack unlikely unless the creatures are subject to
extreme provocation. It counters (and is countered by) sadness.
5. Hate: The affected creatures react more negatively (for example, tolerance becomes
negative neutrality). It counters (and is countered by) friendship.
6. Hope: The effect of hope is to raise morale, saving throw rolls, attack rolls, and
damage caused by +2. It counters (and is countered by) hopelessness.
7. Hopelessness: The affected creatures submit to the demands of any opponent:
surrender, get out, etc. Otherwise, the creatures are 25% likely to do nothing in a round,
and 25% likely to turn back or retreat. It counters (and is countered by) hope.
8. Sadness: This creates unhappiness and a tendency toward maudlin introspection.
This emotion penalizes surprise rolls by -1 and adds +1 to initiative rolls. It counters (and
is countered by) happiness.
All creatures in the area at the instant the spell is cast are affected unless successful
saving throws vs. spell are made, adjusted for Wisdom. The spell lasts as long as the
wizard continues to concentrate on projecting the chosen emotion. Those who fail the
saving throw against fear must roll a new saving throw if they return to the affected area.

 Enchanted Weapon
(Enchantment)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Weapon(s) touched Saving Throw: None
This spell turns an ordinary weapon into a magical one. The weapon is the equivalent
of a +1 weapon, with +1 to attack and damage rolls. Thus, arrows, axes, bolts, bows,
daggers, hammers, maces, spears, swords, etc., can be made into temporarily enchanted
weapons. Two small weapons (arrows, bolts, daggers, etc.) or one large weapon (axe,
bow, hammer, mace, etc.) weapon can be affected by the spell. The spell functions on
existing magical weapons as long as the total combined bonus is +3 or less.
Missile weapons enchanted in this way lose their enchantment when they successfully
hit a target, but otherwise the spell lasts its full duration. This spell is often used in
combination with the enchant an item and permanency spells to create magical weapons,
with this spell being cast once per desired plus of the bonus.
The material components of this spell are powdered lime and carbon.

 Enervation
(Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1d4 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell temporarily suppresses the subject's life force. The necromancer points his
finger and utters the incantation, releasing a black bolt of crackling energy. The subject
must roll a saving throw vs. spell, adjusted for Dexterity, to avoid the bolt. Success
means the spell has no effect. Failure means the subject is treated exactly as if he had
been drained of energy levels by a wight, one level for every four levels of the caster. Hit
Dice, spells, and other character details dependent on level are lost or reduced. Those
drained to 0th level must make a system shock check to survive and are helpless until the
spell expires. The spell effect eventually wears off, either after 1d4 hours plus one hour
per caster level, or after six hours of complete and undisturbed rest. Level abilities are
regained, but lost spells must be rememorized. Undead are immune to this spell.

 Entrench
(Alteration, Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: War
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: 10-ft. cube/2 levels Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
An improved version of the fortify spell, entrench has much the same effect, but 
prepares an even more formidable set of defenses. Like fortify, entrench may be used to 
prepare an open outdoors area such as a field or grassland, or a rough outdoors area such 
as a hillside or forest. Large rooms or chambers may be entrenched as well. In addition to 
the ditches and ramparts of the fortify spell, entrench makes use of local materials to 
create a small palisade and an array of stakes or sharp stones to discourage attackers.
 A. Open Outdoors Site: A rampart or dike of earth faced by a staked ditch rises 
from the ground along the perimeter of the site. Creatures defending the dike receive 75% 
cover against missile fire (+7 bonus to AC), or 25% cover (+2 bonus) if they expose 
themselves by engaging in melee combat or firing missiles out of the dike. Attackers 
cannot charge, run, or sprint over the rampart, and must spend one full round negotiating 
the defenses in order to attack. The dike’s defenders receive a +1 bonus to attack rolls 
against any creatures trying to move through the stakes or stones.
 B. Rough Outdoors Site: Loose stones, deadwood, and briars are arranged to 
form a defensible wall along the perimeter of the area of effect, faced by an array of sharp 
stakes or stones. Characters hiding behind the wall receive 90% cover (+10 bonus to AC), 
or 50% cover (+4 bonus) if they expose themselves by firing missiles or defending the 
wall. Attacking creatures cannot run, charge, or sprint through the defenses, and must 
spend one full round to get through the stakes plus an additional round climbing over the 
wall in order to enter the fortified area. The wall’s defenders gain a +1 bonus to attacks 
against creatures negotiating the defenses.
 C. Marshy or Low-lying Site: In swamps or bogs, entrench creates a water-filled 
ditch around the perimeter of the area of effect. This ditch is 15 feet wide and 3 to 6 feet 
deep; most creatures require two full rounds to negotiate the ditch and climb up the far 
side, and defenders gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls against enemies who are wading the 
ditch or climbing up the other side.
The fortifications created by this spell are permanent, although erosion, 
weathering, and clearing or filling can return the site to its original state. The material 
component is the shell of a giant nautilus. In the Battlesystem rules, entrench provides the 
defending units with a +3 bonus to their AR versus missile and melee attacks, but only a 
+1 bonus against missile attacks in marshy areas.

 Evard's Black Tentacles
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 30 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
This spell creates many rubbery, black tentacles in the area of effect. These waving
members seem to spring forth from the earth, floor, or whatever surface is underfoot--
including water. Each tentacle is 10 feet long, AC 4, and requires as many points of
damage to destroy as the level of the wizard who cast the spell. There are 1d4 such
tentacles, plus one per experience level of the spellcaster.
Any creature within range of the writhing tentacles is subject to attack as determined
by the DM. The target of a tentacle attack must roll a saving throw vs. spell. If this
succeeds, the subject suffers 1d4 points of damage from contact with the tentacle; the
tentacle is then destroyed. Failure to save indicates that the damage inflicted is 2d4
points, the ebon member is wrapped around its subject, and damage will be 3d4 points on
the second and all succeeding rounds. Since these tentacles have no intelligence to guide
them, there is the possibility that they entwine any object--a tree, post, pillar, even the
wizard himself--or continue to squeeze a dead opponent. A grasping hold established by a
tentacle remains until the tentacle is destroyed by some form of attack or until it
disappears at the end of the spell's duration.
The component for this spell is a piece of tentacle from a giant octopus or giant squid.

 Extension I
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By use of an extension I spell, the wizard prolongs the duration of a previously cast
1st-, 2nd-, or 3rd-level spell by 50%. Thus, a levitation spell can be made to function 15
minutes/level, a hold person spell made to work for three rounds/level, etc. Naturally, the
spell affects only spells that have durations. This spell must be cast immediately after the
spell to be extended, either by the original caster or another wizard. If a complete round
or more elapses, the extension fails and is wasted.

 Far Reaching II (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell's function is identical to the 3rd-level far reaching I spell, except that a 
spell of 1st or 2nd level has its range doubled and a spell of 3rd level has its range 
increased by 50%. In addition, any spell of 4th level has its range extended by 25%. 

 Fear
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 60-ft. cone, Saving Throw: Neg.
30-ft. diameter at end, 5-ft. at base
When a fear spell is cast, the wizard sends forth an invisible cone of terror that causes
creatures within its area of effect to turn away from the caster and flee in panic. Affected
creatures are likely to drop whatever they are holding when struck by the spell; the base
chance of this is 60% at 1st level (or at 1 Hit Die), and each level (or Hit Die) above this
reduces the probability by 5%. Thus, at 10th level there is only a 15% chance, and at 13th
level no chance, of dropping items. Creatures affected by fear flee at their fastest rate for
a number of melee rounds equal to the level of experience of the spellcaster. Undead and
creatures that successfully roll their saving throws vs. spell are not affected.
The material component of this spell is either the heart of a hen or a white feather.

 Fire Aura (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Caster
Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, the caster surrounds his body with an aura of magical green 
fire. The fire aura extends 1 foot from the caster's body and provides illumination in a 
10-foot radius. The fire aura provides complete immunity to all forms of fire, both 
natural and magical; the flames can be extinguished only by dispel magic or a similar 
spell. Those touching the fire aura suffer 2-8 (2d4) hit points of damage; additionally, if
the touched victim fails to make his saving throw, his body is set afire with green flames. 
The flames persist for 2-8 (2d4) rounds and can be extinguished only by dispel magic
or a similar spell. Each round the victim is engulfed in these flames, he suffers an 
additional 1-6 hit points of damage; the victim's attack rolls are made with a -2 penalty 
during this time. 
The material components for this spell are a scrap of singed paper and a piece of flint

 Fire Charm
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 15-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell the wizard causes a normal fire source, such as a brazier,
flambeau, or bonfire, to serve as a magical agent, for from this source he causes a
gossamer veil of multihued flame to encircle the fire at a distance of 5 feet. Any creatures
observing the fire or the dancing circle of flame around it must successfully roll a saving
throw vs. spell or be charmed into remaining motionless and gazing, transfixed, at the
flames. While so charmed, creatures are subject to suggestions of 12 or fewer words,
saving vs. spell with a -3 penalty, adjusted for Wisdom. The caster can give one such
suggestion to each creature, and the suggestions need not be the same. The maximum
duration for such a suggestion is one hour, regardless of the caster's level.
The fire charm is broken if the charmed creature is physically attacked, if a solid object
comes between the creature and the veil of flames so as to obstruct vision, or when the
duration of the spell expires. Those exposed to the fire charm again may be affected at
the DM's option, although bonuses may also be allowed to the saving throws. Note that
the veil of flame is not a magical fire, and passing through it incurs the same damage as
would be sustained from passing through its original fire source.
The material component for this spell is a small piece of multicolored silk of
exceptional thinness that the spellcaster must throw into the fire source.

 Fire Shield
(Evocation, Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This spell can be cast in one of two forms: a warm shield that protects against cold based 
attacks, or a chill shield that protects against fire-based attacks. Both return damage
to creatures making physical attacks against the wizard. The wizard must choose which
variation he memorizes when the spell is selected.
When casting this spell, the wizard appears to immolate himself, but the flames are
thin and wispy, shedding no heat, and giving light equal to only half the illumination of a
normal torch. The color of the flames is determined randomly (50% chance of either
color)--blue or green if the chill shield is cast, violet or blue if the warm shield is
employed. The special powers of each shield are as follows:
A) Warm shield. The flames are warm to the touch. Any cold-based attacks are saved
against with a +2 bonus; either half normal damage or no damage is sustained. There is
no bonus against fire-based attacks, but if the wizard fails to make the required saving
throw (if any) against them, he sustains double normal damage.
The material component for this variation is a bit of phosphorous.
B) Chill shield. The flames are cool to the touch. Any fire-based attacks are saved
against with a +2 bonus; either half normal damage or no damage is sustained. There is
no bonus against cold-based attacks, but if the wizard fails to make the required saving
throw (if any) against them, he sustains double normal damage.
The material component for this variation is a live firefly or glow worm or the tail
portions of four dead ones.
Any creature striking the spellcaster with its body or hand-held weapons inflicts
normal damage upon the wizard, but the attacker suffers the same amount of damage. An
attacker's magical resistance, if any, is tested when the creature actually strikes the
wizard. Successful resistance shatters the spell. Failure means the creature's magic
resistance does not affect that casting of the spell.

 Fire Trap
(Abjuration, Evocation)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until discharged Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Object touched Saving Throw: _
Any closeable item (book, box, bottle, chest, coffer, coffin, door, drawer, and so forth)
can be warded by a fire trap spell. The spell is centered on a point selected by the
spellcaster. The item so trapped cannot have a second closure or warding spell placed
upon it (if such is attempted, the chance is 25% that the first spell fails, 25% that the
second spell fails, or 50% that both spells fail). A knock spell does not affect a fire trap in
any way--as soon as the offending party enters or touches the item, the trap discharges.
Thieves and others have only half their normal chance to detect a fire trap (by noticing
the characteristic markings required to cast the spell). They have only half their normal
chance to remove the trap (failure detonates the trap immediately). An unsuccessful
dispel does not detonate the spell. The caster can use the trapped object without
discharging it, as can any individual to whom the spell was specifically attuned when cast
(the exact method usually involves a keyword). When the trap is discharged, there is an
explosion of 5-foot radius from the spell's center; all creatures within this area must roll
saving throws vs. spell. Damage is 1d4 points plus 1 point per level of the caster, or half
this (round up) for creatures successfully saving. (Under water, this ward inflicts half
damage and creates a large cloud of steam.) The item trapped is not harmed by this
explosion.
To place this spell, the caster must trace the outline of the closure with a bit of sulphur
or saltpeter and touch the center of the effect. Attunement to another individual requires a
hair or similar object from that person.

 Fumble
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
When a fumble spell is cast, the wizard creates an area in which all creatures suddenly
become clumsy and awkward. Running creatures trip and fall, those reaching for an item
drop it, those employing weapons likewise awkwardly drop them, etc. Recovery from a
fall or picking up a fumbled object typically requires a successful saving throw and takes
one round. Note that breakable items might suffer damage when dropped. A subject
succeeding with his saving throw can act freely that round, but if he is in the area at the
beginning of the next round, another saving throw is required. Alternatively, the spell can
be cast at an individual creature. Failure to save means the creature is affected for the
spell's entire duration; success means the creature is slowed (see the 3rd-level spell).
The material component of this spell is a dab of solidified milk fat.

 Greater Malison (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 30-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
This spell operates exactly like the 3rd-level minor malison spell except that the 
wizard places a -2 penalty on all saving throws of all hostile creatures within the area of 
effect. Optionally, the wizard may create a -3 penalty to saving throws against spells from 
one school of magic. This penalty is not cumulative with a saving throw penalty which 
derived from the wizard being a specialist; the penalty is not increased to -4. 

 Hallucinatory Terrain
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 20 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10 yds./level cube Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard causes an illusion that hides the actual terrain within
the area of effect. Thus, open fields or a road can be made to look like a swamp, hill,
crevasse, or some other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to look like a
grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and
smooth road. The hallucinatory terrain persists until a dispel magic spell is cast upon the
area or until the duration expires. Individual creatures may see through the illusion, but
the illusion persists, affecting others who observe the scene.
If the illusion involves only a subtle change, such as causing an open wood to appear
thick and dark, or increasing the slope of a hill, the effect may be unnoticed even by those
in the midst of it. If the change is extreme (for example, a grassy plain covering a
seething field of volcanic mudpots), the illusion will no doubt be noticed the instant one
person falls prey to it. Each level of experience expands the dimensions of the cubic area
affected by 10 yards; for example, a 12th-level caster affects an area 120 yds. x 120 yds.
x 120 yds.
The material components of this spell are a stone, a twig, and a bit of green plant--a
leaf or grass blade.

 Halo of Eyes (Abjuration, Conjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Halo of eyes creates a halo of functional eyeballs that sits atop the caster's head, 
enabling the caster to see in all directions at the same time. Additionally, these magical 
eyes all have infravison to a distance of 60 yards. The caster can see opponents on all 
sides of him, providing they are not invisible, and therefore can never by struck from 
behind or suffer a penalty for a back attack. Under normal conditions, the caster cannot 
be surprised. Attacks cannot be directed against the magical eyeballs, but their vision is 
obscured by blindness and other magical and natural effects that would hinder the 
wizard's normal sight. 
The material components for this spell are the feather of an eagle and an eyelash from 
the corpse of any creature. 

 Ice Storm
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20 or 40 ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell can have one of two effects, at the caster's option: Either great hail stones
pound down for one round in a 40-foot-diameter area and inflict 3d10 points of damage
to any creatures within the area of effect, or driving sleet falls in an 80-foot-diameter area
for one round per caster level. The sleet blinds creatures within its area for the duration of
the spell and causes the ground in the area to be icy, slowing movement by 50% and
making it 50% probable that a creature trying to move in the area slips and falls. The sleet
also extinguishes torches and small fires.
Note that this spell will negate a heat metal spell.
The material components for this spell are a pinch of dust and a few drops of water.

 Illusionary Wall
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 x 10 x 10 ft. Saving Throw: None
This spell creates the illusion of a wall, floor, ceiling, or similar surface, which is
permanent until dispelled. It appears absolutely real when viewed (even magically, as
with the priest spell true seeing or its equivalent), but physical objects can pass through it
without difficulty. When the spell is used to hide pits, traps, or normal doors, normal
demihuman and magical detection abilities work normally, and touch or probing searches
reveal the true nature of the surface, though they do not cause the illusion to disappear.
The material component is a rare dust that costs at least 400 gp and requires four days
to prepare.

 Improved Invisibility
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar to the invisibility spell, but the recipient is able to attack, either by
missile discharge, melee combat, or spellcasting, and remain unseen. Note, however, that
telltale traces (such as a shimmering effect) sometimes allow an observant opponent to
attack the invisible spell recipient. These traces are only noticeable when specifically
looked for (after the invisible character has made his presence known). Attacks against
the invisible character suffer -4 penalties to the attack rolls, and the invisible character's
saving throws are made with a +4 bonus. Beings with high Hit Dice that might normally
notice invisible opponents will notice a creature under this spell as if they had 2 fewer Hit
Dice (they roll saving throws vs. spell; success indicates they spot the character).

 Improved Strength
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By casting this spell, the wizard can empower a creature with superhuman 
strength. Unlike the 2nd-level strength spell, improved strength allows the recipient of the 
spell to ignore race or class restrictions on his maximum Strength score, possibly 
reaching scores as high as 25. The exact amount of strength gained varies by the 
recipient’s class group:
Class Strength Gain*
Warrior 1d8+4 (max 25)
Priest 1d6+4 (max 23)
Rogue 1d6+4 (max 23)
Wizard 1d4+4 (max 21)
* Count each percentile bracket of exceptional strength as one point; the strength gain 
proceeds as 18, 18/01, 18/51, 18/76, 18/91, 18/00, 19, and so on.
Even if the recipient is not a warrior, he gains all the benefits of an exceptional 
Strength category; for example, if a thief with a Strength of 14 gained 7 points, he would 
possess a Strength of 18/76 for the duration of the spell. In addition to the attack and 
damage bonus, increased chance to open doors or bend bars, and increased carrying 
capacity, the spell recipient may temporarily gain the ability to throw boulders as a giant 
of equivalent Strength, as shown below:

Strength Equivalent Rock Hurling
Score Giant Type Range Damage
19 Hill giant 80 yards 1d6
20 Stone giant 100 yards 1d8
21 Frost giant 100 yards 1d8
22 Fire giant 120 yards 1d8
23 Cloud giant 140 yards 1d10
24 Storm giant 160 yards 1d12
25 Titan 200 yards 1d20

When the spell ends, the recipient is struck by intense exhaustion; he can do 
nothing except rest for 1d3 full turns to recover his strength. The material component is a 
strand of hair from a giant.

 Leomund's Secure Shelter
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4+1 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 4 turns
Area of Effect: 30 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to magically call into being a sturdy cottage or lodge,
made of material that is common in the area where the spell is cast--stone, timber, or (at
worst) sod. The floor area of the lodging is 30 square feet per level of the spellcaster, and
the surface is level, clean, and dry. In all respects the lodging resembles a normal cottage,
with a sturdy door, two or more shuttered windows, and a small fireplace.
While the lodging is secure against winds of up to 70 miles per hour, it has no heating
or cooling source (other than natural insulation qualities). Therefore, it must be heated as
a normal dwelling, and extreme heat adversely affects it and its occupants. The dwelling
does, however, provide considerable security otherwise, as it is as strong as a normal
stone building, regardless of its material composition. The dwelling resists flames and
fire as if it were stone, and is impervious to normal missiles (but not the sort cast by siege
machinery or giants).
The door, shutters, and even chimney are secure against intrusion, the former two
being wizard locked and the latter being secured by a top grate of iron and a narrow flue.
In addition, these three areas are protected by an alarm spell. Lastly, an unseen servant is
conjured to provide service to the spellcaster.
The inside of the shelter contains rude furnishings as desired by the spellcaster--up to
eight bunks, a trestle table and benches, as many as four chairs or eight stools, and a
writing desk.
The material components of this spell are a square chip of stone, crushed lime, a few
grains of sand, a sprinkling of water, and several splinters of wood. These must be
augmented by the components of the alarm and unseen servant spells if these benefits are
to be included (string and silver wire and a small bell).

 Lesser Geas
(Enchantment/Charm, Song)
Range: 10 yards Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +1 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium audio Critical: None
By means of this spell, the wizard places a magical command upon a creature of 7 
Hit Dice or less to carry out some service, undertake a task, or refrain from some action 
or course of activity. The caster specifies the conditions of the lesser geas when he casts 
the spell; the victim must be intelligent, conscious, able to understand the caster, and not 
under the influence of any spells or effects that affect or control its mind. The lesser geas 
cannot compel a creature to kill itself or perform acts that will result in certain death, 
although the wizard can use the spell to coerce the subject into almost any other 
nondestructive course of action. The victim is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell to avoid 
the lesser geas, but suffers a –2 penalty on its save if the wizard is of higher level or Hit 
Dice, or a –4 penalty if the wizard is more than twice the victim’s level or Hit Dice.
The wizard must be careful in the wording of his lesser geas since the casting and 
fulfillment are tricky. The subject should be given a tangible, achievable goal, with clear 
courses of action available to him. “Climb that mountain!” or “Tear that mountain down 
rock by rock!” are legitimate geases, but a geas such as “Become a mountain!” is just not 
specific enough to work.
Similar to the 6th-level spell geas, the lesser geas compels the subject to obey the 
wizard’s command. If the geased creature fails to follow the wizard’s instructions, it will 
grow sick—each week that passes, the creature loses one point from each ability score, 1 
hit point per Hit Die, and suffers a cumulative –1 penalty to attack rolls and saving 
throws. These penalties cannot reduce an ability score to less than 3, reduce a creature to 
less than 1 hit point per Hit Die, or reduce its attacks and saves by more than 4 points. 
The lesser geas can be countermanded by a remove curse spell, or a limited wish or wish. 
However, if the subject entertains thoughts of removing the lesser geas, it will protect 
itself by giving the subject a warning headache. If the subject persists, then the sickness 
will begin,

 Locate Creature (Divination)
Range: 50 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar to the 2nd-level locate object spell. Instead of finding an 
inanimate object, however, it allows the wizard to find a creature. The wizard casts the 
spell, slowly turns, and is able to sense the direction of the person or creature, provided 
the subject is within range. The wizard learns how far away the creature is and in what 
direction it is moving (if at all).
This spell can locate a general species of creature (a horse or umber hulk, for 
instance) or can be used to find a specific individual. The wizard must have physically 
seen the individual or the type of creature at least once from a distance of no more than 
10 yards.
Unlike locate object, this spell is not blocked by lead. It is blocked, however, by 
running water (such as a river or stream). Objects cannot be found through use of this 
spell.
The material component is a bit of a bloodhound's fur.

 Magic Mirror
(Enchantment, Divination)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 hr.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
 By means of this spell, the wizard changes a normal mirror into a scrying device
similar to a crystal ball. The details of the use of such a scrying device are found in the
DMG (in Appendix 3: Magical Item Descriptions, under the description for the crystal
ball).
The mirror used must be of finely wrought and highly polished silver and cost not less
than 1,000 gp. This mirror is not harmed by casting the spell, but the other material
components--the eye of a hawk, an eagle, or even a roc, and nitric acid, copper, and zinc-
-are used up.
The following spells can be cast through a magic mirror: comprehend languages, read
magic, tongues, and infravision. The following spells have a 5% chance per level of the
caster of operating correctly: detect magic, detect good or evil, and message. The base
chances for the subject to detect any crystal ball-like spell are listed in the DMG (again,
in Appendix 3: Magical Item Descriptions, under the description for the crystal ball.

 Mask of Death (Necromancy) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell, a wizard can change a corpse's features to make it appear to be 
someone else. The caster must possess an accurate portrait of the individual to be 
duplicated, or must have a clear mental image of the person based on personal 
experience.
If animate dead is cast on the body, it can be animated to become a zombie that looks 
exactly like the copied person. The double is a mindless automaton, however, having all 
the characteristics of a normal zombie.
This spell may be cast on a creature that has already become a zombie. The wizard 
must successfully touch the zombie in combat, unless the zombie is controlled by the 
caster.
The material component of this spell is a drop of doppleganger's blood. 

 Massmorph
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 10 ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast upon willing creatures of man-size or smaller, up to 10 such
creatures per level of the caster can be magically altered to appear as trees of any sort.
Thus, a company of creatures can be made to appear as a copse, grove, or orchard.
Furthermore, these massmorphed creatures can be passed through and even touched by
other creatures without revealing their true nature. Note, however, that blows to the
creature-trees cause damage, and blood can be seen.
Creatures to be massmorphed must be within the spell's area of effect; unwilling
creatures are not affected. Affected creatures remain unmoving but aware, subject to
normal sleep requirements, and able to see, hear, and feel for as long as the spell is in
effect. The spell persists until the caster commands it to cease or until a dispel magic
spell is cast upon the creatures. Creatures left in this state for extended periods are subject
to insects, weather, disease, fire, and other natural hazards.
The material component of this spell is a handful of bark chips from the type of tree
the creatures are to become.

 Minor Creation
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 cubic ft./level Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to create an item of nonliving, vegetable nature--soft
goods, rope, wood, etc. The caster actually pulls wisps of material of the plane of Shadow
from the air and weaves them into the desired item. The volume of the item created
cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per level of the spellcaster. The item remains in existence for
only as long as the spell's duration.
The spellcaster must have at least a tiny piece of matter of the same type of item he
plans to create by means of the minor creation spell--a bit of twisted hemp to create rope,
a splinter of wood to create a door, and so forth.

 Minor Globe of Invulnerability
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 5-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere around the caster
that prevents any 1st-, 2nd-, or 3rd-level spell effects from penetrating (i.e., the area of
effect of any such spells does not include the area of the minor globe of invulnerability).
This includes innate abilities and effects from devices. However, any type of spell can be
cast out of the magical globe, and these pass from the caster of the globe to their subject
without affecting the globe. Fourth and higher level spells are not affected by the globe.
The globe can be brought down by a successful dispel magic spell. The caster can leave
and return to the globe without penalty. Note that spell effects are not actually disrupted
by the globe unless cast directly through or into it: The caster would still see a mirror
image created by a wizard outside the globe. If that wizard then entered the globe, the
images would wink out, to reappear when the wizard exited the globe. Likewise, a wizard
standing in the area of a light spell would still receive sufficient light for vision, even
though that part of the light spell volume in the globe would not be luminous.
The material component of the spell is a glass or crystal bead that shatters at the
expiration of the spell.

 Minor Spell Turning (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar to the 7th-level spell turning, which causes spells cast against the 
wizard to rebound on the original caster. This includes spells cast from scrolls and innate 
spell-like abilities, but excludes the following: area effects that are not centered directly 
upon the protected wizard, spell effects delivered by touch, and spell effects from devices 
such as wands, staves, and so forth. Thus, a light spell cast to blind the protected wizard 
could be turned back upon and possibly blind the caster, while the same spell would be 
unaffected if cast to light an area in which the protected wizard were standing.
One to four (1d4) spell levels may be turned. The exact number is secretly rolled by 
the DM; the player never knows how effective the spell is.
Unlike the 7th level version of this spell, minor spell turning is not capable of 
partially turning a spell. For example, if a wizard has three levels of spell turning, he can 
turn three 1st-level spells, one 1st and one 2nd, or one 3rd-level spell. He can in no way 
turn spells of 4th level or above. If the caster is the target of a spell of a higher level than 
he is capable of turning, the caster receives the full brunt of the spell.
If the protected wizard and a spellcasting attacker both have spell turning effects 
operating, a resonating field is created that has the following effects:
D100 Roll Effect 
01-70     Spell drains away without effect 
71-80     Spell affects both equally at full damage 
81-97     Both turning effects are rendered non-functional for 1d4 turns 
98-00     Both casters are sucked through a rift into the Positive Material plane
 
The material component of this spell is a smoothly polished silver coin. 

 Monster Summoning II
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 40 yd. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell is much like the 3rd-level spell monster summoning I, except that this spell
summons 1d6 2nd-level monsters. These appear anywhere within the spell's area of effect
and attack the caster's opponents, until he commands them to cease, the spell duration
expires, or the monsters are slain. These creatures do not check morale; they vanish when
slain. If no opponent exists to fight and the wizard can communicate with them, the
summoned monsters can perform other services for the summoning wizard.
The material components of this spell are a tiny bag and a small (not necessarily lit)
candle.

 Mordenkainen's Celerity (Alteration, Invocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Mordenkainen's celerity affects spells of levels 1-3 which alter the movement of the 
wizard such as feather fall, jump, spider climb, levitate, fly, and haste. Spells to be 
affected must be cast within 1 turn of the casting of the celerity. Spells do not expire 
when the celerity expires.
Spells cast following the celerity receive a 25% bonus to duration. This effect may 
not be gained in conjunction with other means of magically extending a spell's duration. 
In addition, the caster's movement rate is increased by 25%. Feather fall is an exception; 
the rate of descent may be reduced by 25% at the caster's option.
The area of effect is always the caster, except in the case of the haste spell, for which 
the effects of the celerity will operate on 1d4 creatures in addition to the wizard. The 
celerity will not affect the other creatures in any other manner.
The celerity gives the wizard a +2 bonus to his saving throws against spells of levels 
1-3 which directly affect his movement. This includes web, hold person, and slow. The 
wizard also gains a +2 bonus on all saving throws against magical paralysis attacks.
The material component is a small pouch or vessel containing centipede or millipede 
legs. 

 Mordenkainen’s Force Missiles
(Invocation/Evocation, Force)
Range: 30 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1–7 targets Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: d10
Sensory: Medium visual, Critical: Medium (1 hit) 
 large audio impact
This spell creates a brilliant globe of magical energy that streaks forth from the 
caster’s hand to unerringly strike its target, much like a magic missile spell. The subject 
must be seen or otherwise detected in order to be targeted by this spell. The wizard 
creates one missile at 7th level and an additional missile at every third level after 7th—in 
other words, two missiles at 10th level, three at 13th, four at 16th, and so on, to a 
maximum of seven missiles at 25th level. Each missile inflicts 2d4 points of damage to 
the target and then bursts in a 3-foot radius concussive blast that inflicts 1 point of 
damage per level of the caster—for example, a 12th-level wizard could conjure two force 
missiles, each of which strikes for 2d4+12 points of damage. The victim may attempt a 
saving throw vs. spell to negate the concussion damage, but the impact of the missile 
itself allows no saving throw.
Just like magic missile, the force spheres may be directed at as many or as few 
targets as the caster likes. The missiles can easily damage or destroy inanimate objects, 
especially fragile or delicate items.

 Omniscient Eye
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This divination enhances the caster’s vision by allowing him to see through any 
normal or magical darkness, fog, or mist to a range of 60 feet. In addition, the caster has a 
chance of piercing magical illusions, blending, and invisibility equal to 70% plus 1% per 
level of experience, less 2% per spell level. For example, a 7th-level priest has a 70% + 
7% - 4%, or 73% chance, to spot a wizard concealing himself by using the 2nd-level spell 
invisibility.
Unlike the 5th-level spell true seeing, the omniscient eye does not grant the caster 
the ability to perceive secret doors, traps, lost or misplaced objects, or creature 
alignments; it simply ensures that the caster can see the surroundings as they would 
appear without the interference of weather, lighting, or illusionary magic. Thus, the 
omniscient eye can be deceived by careful camouflage, concealment, or other purely 
physical precautions. Other phenomena that may bypass this spell’s power include 
psionic invisibility, true transparency, or extradimensional objects or creatures.
The material component of this spell is a special ointment for the eyes that is 
composed of rare powders and herbs. The ointment costs at least 100 gold pieces for a 
single application.

 Otiluke's Dispelling Screen (Evocation, Abjuration)
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 20-foot square
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a shimmering screen of violet energy in any shape the caster desires. 
Any creature passing through the screen is affected by dispel magic with the same level 
of effectiveness as that spell cast by the wizard. 
The material components for this spells are a sheet of fine lead crystal and a chysolite 
gemstone worth 1,000 gp (both vanish after the spell is cast).

 Otiluke's Resilient Sphere
(Alteration, Evocation)
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1-ft. diameter/level Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast, the result is a globe of shimmering force that encloses the
subject creature--if it is small enough to fit within the diameter of the sphere and it fails
to successfully save vs. spell. The resilient sphere contains its subject for the spell's
duration, and it is not subject to damage of any sort except from a rod of cancellation, a
wand of negation, or a disintegrate or dispel magic spell. These cause it to be destroyed
without harm to the subject. Nothing can pass through the sphere, inside or out, though
the subject can breathe normally. The subject may struggle, but all that occurs is a
movement of the sphere. The globe can be physically moved either by people outside the
globe or by the struggles of those within.
The material components of the spell are a hemispherical piece of diamond (or similar
hard, clear gem material) and a matching hemispherical piece of gum arabic.

 Phantasmal Killer
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates the illusion of the most fearsome thing
imaginable to the victim, simply by forming the fears of the victim's subconscious mind
into something that its conscious mind can visualize--the most horrible beast. Only the
spell recipient can see the phantasmal killer (the caster sees only a shadowy shape), but if
it succeeds in scoring a hit, the subject dies from fright. The beast attacks as a 4 Hit Dice
monster. It is invulnerable to all attacks and can pass through any barriers, Once cast, it
inexorably pursues the subject, for it exists only in the subject's mind.
The only defenses against a phantasmal killer are an attempt to disbelieve (which can
be tried but once), slaying or rendering unconscious the wizard who cast the spell, or
rendering unconscious the target of the spell for its duration. To disbelieve the killer, the
subject must specifically state the attempt and then roll an Intelligence check. This roll
has a -1 penalty for every four levels of the caster.
Special modifiers apply to this attack:

Condition                                 | Modifier
Surprise                                  | -2
Subject previously attacked by this spell | +1
Subject is an illusionist                 | +2
Subject is wearing a helm of telepathy    | +3

Magic resistance, bonuses against fear, and Wisdom adjustments also apply. The
subject's magic resistance is checked first; if the spell overcomes the resistance, the
subject's fear/Wisdom bonuses (if any) then apply as negative modifiers to his
Intelligence check.
If the subject of a phantasmal killer attack succeeds in disbelieving, and he is wearing a
helm of telepathy, the beast can be turned upon the wizard, who must then disbelieve it or
be subject to its attack and possible effects.
If the subject ignores the killer to perform other actions, such as attacking the caster,
the killer may, at the DM's option, gain bonuses to hit (for flank or rear attacks, etc.).
Spells such as remove fear and cloak of bravery, cast after the killer has attacked, grant
another check to disbelieve the effect.

 Plant Growth
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: caster's level2 Saving Throw: None
x 100 sq. ft.
When a plant growth spell is cast, the wizard causes normal vegetation to grow,
entwine, and entangle to form a thicket or jungle that creatures must hack or force a way
through at a movement rate of 1 per round (or 2 if the creatures are larger than man size).
The area must contain brush and trees for this spell to work. Briars, bushes, creepers,
lianas, roots, saplings, thistles, thorn, trees, vines, and weeds become thick and
overgrown so as to form a barrier. The area of effect is the caster's level, squared, times
100 square feet. This area can be arranged in any square or rectangular shape that the
caster desires. Thus, an 8th-level wizard can affect (8 x 8 =) 64 x 100 square feet, or
6,400 square feet. This could be an 80-foot x 80-foot square, a 160-foot x 40-foot
rectangle, a 640-foot x 10-foot rectangle, etc. Individual plant girth and height is
generally affected less than thickness of brush, branch, and undergrowth. The spell's
effects persist in the area until it is cleared by labor, fire, or such magical means as a
dispel magic spell.

 Polymorph Other
(Alteration)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The polymorph other spell is a powerful magic that completely alters the form and
ability, and possibly the personality and mentality, of the recipient. Of course, while a
creature with a lower Intelligence can be polymorphed in form into something with a
higher Intelligence, it will not gain that creature's mental ability. The reverse--
polymorphing a higher Intelligence creature into one of significantly lower Intelligence--
results in a creature much more intelligent than appearances would lead one to believe.
The polymorphed creature must succeed on a system shock (see Table 3) roll to see if it
survives the change. After this, it must make a special Intelligence check to see if it
retains its personality (see following).
The polymorphed creature acquires the form and physical abilities of the creature it has
been polymorphed into, while retaining its own mind. Form includes natural Armor Class
(that due to skin toughness, but not due to quickness, magical nature, etc.), physical
movement abilities (walking, swimming, and flight with wings, but not plane shifting,
blinking, teleporting, etc.), and attack routines (claw/claw/bite, swoop, rake, and
constriction, but not petrification, breath weapons, energy drain, etc.). Hit points and
saving throws do not change from the original form. Noncorporeal forms cannot be
assumed. Natural shapeshifters (lycanthropes, dopplegangers, higher level druids, etc.)
are affected for but one round, and can then resume their normal form.
If slain, the polymorphed creature reverts to its original form, though it remains dead.
(Note that most creatures generally prefer their own form and will not willingly stand the
risk of being subjected to this spell!) As class and level are not attributes of form, abilities
derived from either cannot be gained by this spell, nor can exact ability scores be
specified.
When the polymorph occurs, the creature's equipment, if any, melds into the new form
(in particularly challenging campaigns, the DM may allow protective devices, such as a
ring of protection, to continue operating effectively). The creature retains its mental
abilities, including spell use, assuming the new form allows completion of the proper
verbal and somatic components and the material components are available. Creatures not
used to a new form might be penalized at the DM's option (for example, -2 to attack rolls)
until they practice sufficiently to master it.
When the physical change occurs, there is a base 100% chance that the subject's
personality and mentality change into that of the new form (i.e., a roll of 20 or less on
1d20). For each 1 point of Intelligence of the subject, subtract 1 from the base chance on
1d20. Additionally, for every Hit Die of difference between the original form and the
form it is assuming, add or subtract 1 (depending on whether polymorphed form has
more Hit Dice [or levels] or fewer Hit Dice [or levels] than original, respectively). The
chance for assumption of the personality and mentality of the new form is checked daily
until the change takes place.
A subject acquiring the mentality of the new form has effectively become the creature
whose form was assumed and comes under the control of the DM until recovered by a
wish spell or similar magic. Once this final change takes place, the creature acquires the
new form's full range of magical and special abilities.
For example: If a 1 Hit Die orc of 8 Intelligence is polymorphed into a white dragon
with 6 Hit Dice, it is 85% (20 - 8 Intelligence + 5 level difference [6-1] = 17 out of 20 =
85%) likely to actually become one in all respects, but in any case it has the dragon's
physical and mental capabilities. If it does not assume the personality and mentality of a
white dragon, it knows what it formerly knew as well.
The wizard can use a dispel magic spell to change the polymorphed creature back to its
original form, and this requires a system shock roll. Those who have lost their
individuality and are then converted back maintain the belief that they are actually the
polymorphed creature and attempt to return to that form. Thus, the orc who comes to
believe he is a white dragon, when converted back to his orc form, steadfastly maintains
he is really a white dragon polymorphed into the shape of an orc. His companions will
most likely consider him mad.
The material component of this spell is a caterpillar cocoon.

 Polymorph Self
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: 2 turns/level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard is able to assume the form of any creature, save
those that are noncorporeal, from as small as a wren to as large as a hippopotamus.
Furthermore, the wizard gains its physical mode of locomotion and breathing as well. No
system shock roll is required. The spell does not give the new form's other abilities
(attack, magic, special movement, etc.), nor does it run the risk of the wizard changing
personality and mentality.
When the polymorph occurs, the caster's equipment, if any, melds into the new form
(in particularly challenging campaigns, the DM may allow protective devices, such as a
ring of protection, to continue operating effectively). The caster retains all mental
abilities, including spell use, assuming the new form allows completion of the proper
verbal and somatic components and the material components are available. A caster not
used to a new form might be penalized at the DM's option (for example, -2 penalty to
attack rolls) until he practices sufficiently to master it.
Thus, a wizard changed into an owl could fly, but his vision would be human; a change
to a black pudding would enable movement under doors or along halls and ceilings, but
not the pudding's offensive (acid) or defensive capabilities. Naturally, the strength of the
new form is sufficient to enable normal movement. The spellcaster can change his form
as often as desired for the duration of the spell, each change requiring a round. The
wizard retains his own hit points, attack rolls, and saving throws. The wizard can end the
spell at any time; when voluntarily returning to his own form and ending the spell, he
regains 1d12 hit points. The wizard also will return to his own form when slain or when
the effect is dispelled, but no hit points are restored in these cases.

 Psychic Protection
(Abjuration, Mentalism)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell provides the caster with a +6 bonus to saving throws (or allows a 
saving throw in the case that one is not normally allowed) against spells or effects that 
control or destroy his mind, including command, domination, feeblemind, hold magic jar, 
insanity, possession, and the psionic powers of domination, mass domination, and switch 
personality. Any attempt to subvert or destroy the wizard’s mind automatically fails, but 
the wizard is still vulnerable to spells or effects that influence his actions without taking 
control of his psyche. In other words, attacks that simply encourage the victim to act in a 
certain way or influence his perceptions do not trigger the magical warding of the spell. A 
partial list of spells, powers, and effects that are not defended against includes charm, 
suggestion, emotion, confusion, hypnotism, fear, antipathy, beguiling, Otto’s irresistible 
dance, a mind flayer’s mental blast, and most psionic attacks.
The material component for this spell is a tiny figurine of the wizard, cast in iron.

 Rainbow Pattern
(Alteration, Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds. Components: S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the wizard creates a glowing, rainbow-hued band of
interweaving patterns. Any creature caught in it may become fascinated and gaze at it as
long as the effect lasts. The spell can captivate a maximum of 24 levels, or Hit Dice, of
creatures--24 creatures with 1 Hit Die each, 12 with 2 Hit Dice, etc. All creatures affected
must be within the area of effect, and each is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell. An 
attack on an affected creature that causes damage frees it from the spell immediately.
Creatures that are restrained and removed from the area still try to follow the pattern.
Once the rainbow pattern is cast, the wizard need only gesture in the direction he
desires, and the pattern of colors moves slowly off in that direction, at the rate of 30 feet
per round. It persists without further attention from the spellcaster for 1d3 rounds. All
affected creatures follow the moving rainbow of light. If the pattern leads its subjects into
a dangerous area (through flame, off a cliff, etc.), allow a second saving throw. If the
view of the lights is completely blocked (by an obscurement spell, for instance), the spell
is negated.
The wizard need not utter a sound, but he must gesture appropriately while holding a
crystal prism and the material component, a piece of phosphor.

 Rary's Mnemonic Enhancer
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to memorize, or retain the memory of, three
additional spell levels (three 1st-level spells, or one 1st and one 2nd, or one 3rd-level
spell). The wizard has two options:
A) Memorize additional spells. This option is taken at the time the spell is cast. The
additional spells must be memorized normally and any material components must be
acquired.
B) Retain memory of any spell (within the level limits) cast the round prior to starting
to cast this spell. The round after a spell is cast, the enhancer must be successfully cast.
This restores the previously cast spell to memory. However, the caster still must acquire
any needed material components.
The material components of the spell are a piece of string, an ivory plaque of at least
100 gp value, and ink consisting of squid secretion with either black dragon's blood or
giant slug digestive juice. These disappear when the spell is cast.

 Recitation
(Abjuration, Invocation/Evocation)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate audio Critical: None
By reciting a sacred passage or declaration, the priest invokes his deity’s blessing 
upon himself and his allies, while causing confusion and weakness among his enemies. 
All creatures within the area of effect at the instant of the spell’s completion are affected. 
Allies of the priest gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and saving throws, or a +3 bonus if 
they are of the same faith (not just alignment) as the caster. Enemies suffer a –2 penalty 
to attack rolls and saving throws. After the recitation, the priest is free to take further 
actions during the spell’s duration as he sees fit—he need not concentrate to maintain the 
spell. As a result, it is possible for the priest to cast a prayer spell, which increases the 
bonuses and penalties provided to +3 and –3 respectively. If another priest is using chant 
at the same time, then the bonuses and penalties given by it are also allowed to add to the 
total.
The material spell component is the priest’s holy symbol and a copy of whatever 
text or scroll he holds sacred. Neither are consumed by the spell.

 Remove Curse
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Upon casting this spell, the wizard is usually able to remove a curse--whether it is on
an object, on a person, or in the form of some undesired sending or evil presence. Note
that the remove curse spell cannot affect a cursed shield, weapon, or suit of armor, for
example, although it usually enables a person afflicted with a cursed item to be rid of it.
Certain special curses may not be countered by this spell, or may be countered only by a
caster of a certain level or higher. A caster of 12th level or higher can cure lycanthropy
with this spell by casting it on the animal form. The were-creature receives a saving
throw vs. spell and, if successful, the spell fails and the wizard must gain a level before
attempting the remedy again.
The reverse of the spell is not permanent; the bestow curse lasts one turn for every
experience level of the wizard casting the spell. It causes one of the following effects (roll
percentile dice):

D100 Roll | Result
 1-50     | Lowers one ability of the subject to 3 (the DM determines which by random selection)
51-75     | Worsens the subject's attack rolls and saving throws by -4
76-00     | Makes the subject 50% likely per turn to drop whatever it is holding (or simply do nothing, in the case of creatures not using tools)

It is possible for a wizard to devise his own curse, and it should be similar in power to
those given (the DM has final say). The subject of a bestow curse spell must be touched.
If the subject is touched, a saving throw is still applicable; if it is successful, the effect is
negated. The bestowed curse cannot be dispelled.

 Shadow Monsters
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
A wizard casting the shadow monsters spell uses material from the Demiplane of
Shadow to shape semireal illusions of one or more monsters. The total Hit Dice of the
shadow monster or monsters thus created cannot exceed the level of experience of the
wizard; thus, a 10th-level wizard can create one creature that has 10 Hit Dice, two that
have 5 Hit Dice, etc. All shadow monsters created by one spell must be of the same sort.
The actual hit point total for each monster is 20% of the hit point total it would normally
have. (To determine this, roll the appropriate Hit Dice and multiply the hit points by .2.
Any remainder less than .4 is dropped--in the case of monsters with 1 or fewer Hit Dice,
this indicates the monster was not successfully created--and scores between .4 and 1 are
rounded up to 1 hit point.)
Those viewing the shadow monsters are allowed to disbelieve as per normal illusions,
although there is a -2 penalty to the attempt. The shadow monsters perform as the real
monsters with respect to Armor Class and attack forms. Those who believe in the shadow
monster suffer real damage from their attacks. Special attack forms such as petrification
or level drain do not actually occur, but a subject who believes they are real will react
appropriately.
Those who roll successful saving throws see the shadow monsters as transparent
images superimposed on vague shadowy forms. These are Armor Class 10 and inflict
only 20% of normal melee damage (biting, clawing, weapon, etc.), dropping fractional
damage less than .4 as done with hit points.
For example: A shadow monster griffon attacks a person who knows it is only quasireal. 
The monster strikes with two claw attacks and one bite, hitting as a 7-Hit Die
monster. All three attacks hit; the normal damage dice are rolled, multiplied by .2
separately, rounded up or down, and added together to get the total damage. Thus, if the
attacks score 4, 2 and 11 points, a total of 4 points of damage is inflicted (4 x .2 = .8
[rounded to 1], 2 x .2 = .4 [rounded to 1], 11 x .2 = 2.2 [rounded to 2]. The sum is 1 + 1 +
2 = 4).

 Shout
(Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 x 30 ft. cone Saving Throw: Special
When a shout spell is cast, the wizard gives himself tremendous vocal powers. The
caster can emit an ear-splitting noise that has a principal effect in a cone shape radiating
from his mouth to a point 30 feet away. Any creature within this area is deafened for 2d6
rounds and suffers 2d6 points of damage. A successful saving throw vs. spell negates the
deafness and reduces the damage by half. Any exposed brittle or crystal substance subject
to sonic vibrations is shattered by a shout, while those brittle objects in the possession of
a creature receive the creature's saving throw. Deafened creatures suffer a -1 penalty to
surprise rolls, and those that cast spells with verbal components are 20% likely to miscast
them.
The shout spell cannot penetrate the 2nd-level priest spell, silence, 10’ radius. This
spell can be employed only once per day; otherwise, the caster might permanently deafen
himself.
The material components for this spell are a drop of honey, a drop of citric acid, and a
small cone made from a bull or ram horn.

 Solid Fog
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20 x 10 x 10 ft. Saving Throw: None
volume/level of caster
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates a billowing mass of misty vapors similar to a
wall of fog spell. The caster can create less vapor if desired, as long as a rectangular or
cubic mass at least 10 feet on a side is formed. The fog obscures all sight, normal and
infravision, beyond 2 feet. However, unlike normal fog, only a very strong wind can
move these vapors, and any creature attempting to move through the solid fog progresses
at a movement rate of 1 foot per round. A gust of wind spell cannot affect it. A fireball,
flame strike, or wall of fire can burn it away in a single round.
The material components for the spell are a pinch of dried, powdered peas combined
with powdered animal hoof.

 Stoneskin
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the affected creature gains a virtual immunity to any attack by
cut, blow, projectile, or the like. Even a sword of sharpness cannot affect a creature
protected by stoneskin, nor can a rock hurled by a giant, a snake's strike, etc. However,
magical attacks from such spells as fireball, magic missile, lightning bolt, and so forth
have their normal effects. The spell's effects are not cumulative with multiple castings.
The spell blocks 1d4 attacks, plus one attack per two levels of experience the caster has
achieved. This limit applies regardless of attack rolls and regardless of whether the attack
was physical or magical. For example, a stoneskin spell cast by a 9th-level wizard would
protect against from five to eight attacks. An attacking griffon would reduce the
protection by three each round; four magic missiles would count as four attacks in
addition to inflicting their normal damage.
The material components of the spell are granite and diamond dust sprinkled on the
recipient's skin.


 Summon Lycanthrope (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is effective only on the night of a full moon and one night immediately 
preceding and following it.
For the spell to be effective, the caster and the lycanthrope must be on the same plane 
of existence; there is no other range limitation. When the spell is cast, the nearest 
lycanthrope (as determined by the DM) of the chosen species must attempt a saving 
throw. If successful, the creature is unaffected. If it fails, the lycanthrope instantly 
appears near the caster.
Upon arrival, the creature can freely attack the wizard unless the caster has created a 
warding circle. If a circle is present, the lycanthrope appears in the circle; otherwise, it 
appears 1d10 feet away from the caster in a random direction (the DM should use the 
scatter diagram for grenade-like missiles found in the DUNGEON MASTER® Guide to 
determine direction).
A warding circle is a temporary prison drawn with specially prepared pigments laced 
with silver filings. These pigments cost 100 gp for each foot of diameter of the circle 
(thus, a circle 10 feet across costs 1,000 gp). A warding circle must be at least 5 feet in 
diameter; if smaller, the lycanthrope is automatically freed. Preparing the circle takes one 
turn per foot of diameter.
Even with such protection, the lycanthrope can break out of the circle and wreak 
vengeance upon the summoner. The creature's base chance of success is 20%, modified 
by the difference between its Hit Dice and the wizard's experience level. If the spellcaster 
is of a higher level, the difference is subtracted from the creature's chance of escaping the 
circle. If the lycanthrope is of higher Hit Dice than the wizard's level, the difference is 
added to its chance. Each creature is allowed only one attempt to escape.
Any break in the circle spoils the power of the spell and enables the lycanthrope to 
break free. Even a straw dropped across the line of a magic circle destroys its power. 
Fortunately, the creature cannot take any action against any portion of the ward, for the 
magic of the barrier absolutely prevents this.
Once safely ensnared, the lycanthrope can be held for as long as the summoner dares. 
The creature cannot leave the circle, nor can any of its attacks or powers penetrate the 
magical barrier. When the full moon sets, the lycanthrope reverts to its human form. At 
this time, it is free of the spell and may leave the circle.
The material components are a drop of blood from any animal, a human hair, and a 
moonstone worth at least 150 gp. If the caster elects to create the warding circle, the 
components described above are also required. 

 Suspended Animation
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +8 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By using this spell, the caster can place one willing subject in a state of suspended 
animation. The victim’s breathing, heartbeat, and other vital processes slow to the point 
of nonexistence, although he or she seems to be deeply asleep, not dead. A caster of 7th 
to 10th level can maintain the suspended animation for up to one week plus one day per 
level; a caster of 11th to 15th level can maintain the state for up to one month plus one 
week per level; and a caster of 16th level or higher can place someone in suspended 
animation for one year plus one month per level.
This spell has many useful applications. First, all bodily or mental afflictions 
become quiescent during the victim’s slumber. Poison, insanity, and many curses 
(lycanthropy, geas, and mummy rot included) can be arrested, if not cured, and have no 
effect on the subject while he sleeps. Of course, if the spell is broken prematurely, all the 
conditions that were halted by the spell will start once again. Second, the subject requires 
no food or water, but he still needs air and dies if deprived of oxygen. Third, for every 
month that the subject is in suspended animation, he recovers one hit point.
The caster can awaken the subject at any time within the spell’s duration, 
although he must be in the subject’s presence to do so. Optionally, the priest may 
pre-specify an amount of time within his normal duration or a special condition to 
awaken the sleeper. A condition must include a physical stimulus to the subject, such as a 
change in temperature, the touch of the sun, the kiss of a princess, or whatever the priest 
desires. If the priest maintaining the spell dies or is not able to awaken the sleeper, then 
the subject can be taken to another priest of the same deity to be awakened.
If the subject is attacked, he is completely helpless and can be killed by a single 
blow. However, if the subject is attacked without being slain for some reason, he gains a 
saving throw vs. spell each round to emerge from his suspended animation. The subject 
will be extremely groggy and disoriented if his slumber is disturbed in this fashion, 
suffering a –2 penalty to all die rolls for 1d6 turns, but if he awakens in the normal or
prescribed fashion, he is disoriented for only one round.
Some of the drawbacks to this spell affect the casting priest. First of all, it takes 
all of the priest’s concentration to cast and maintain this spell. This means that the priest 
cannot cast any other spell while a subject is being held under the influence of the 
suspended animation. For each week that the subject is in suspended animation, the priest 
loses one point of Constitution. This happens each week until the priest transfers the spell 
to another priest of the same alignment. Transferring this spell requires a successful 
saving throw vs. spell. If the saving throw is successful, then the priest who transfers the 
spell can start recovering Constitution at a rate of one point per hour of bedrest. If the 
saving throw doesn’t succeed, then the priest loses another point of Constitution and 
cannot try to transfer the spell again for 8 hours. Either way, because of the temporary 
lapse of the spell, the subject will automatically lose 1 hit point each time a transfer is 
attempted.
The material component for this spell is a rare herb that must be prepared with 
exacting care. The treatment costs at least 200 gold pieces and requires 1d3 days of the 
priest’s time and attention.


 There/Not There* (Evocation) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1-6 turns
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10' cube
Saving Throw: None
This peculiar wild magic creates a random fluctuation in the probabilities of 
existence. The spell can be cast only upon nonliving objects and can affect only materials 
within a 10'x10'x10' cube.
Objects in the area of effect either remain normal and visible or they disappear (50% 
chance). The state of existence for any object is determined randomly and changes with 
each viewing and viewer. Thus, a single object could appear and disappear several times 
during the course of the spell. Furthermore, it might be "there" for one onlooker, but "not 
there" for another.
For example, a wild mage casts this spell on a doorway. The DM rolls percentile dice 
and determines the door is "there" for the wizard. The wizard's companion also looks at 
the door. The DM rolls and determines that the door is "not there" for the companion. 
The pair studies the door for several minutes, during which time the door does not change 
(this counts as a single viewing for each character).
The wizard and his companion then close their eyes. When they look at the door 
again, new checks for each character reveal the door is "not there" for both characters. 
The pair steps through the open archway and turns around to look at the door once again. 
This time it is "not there" for the wizard, but "there" for his companion. This random 
changing continues throughout the duration of the spell.
Objects that are "there" are normal in all respects. Doors can be opened, chests can be 
picked up and carried, and rocks can be used as barricades. Objects that are "not there" 
are gone, although their absence does not cause ceilings to collapse or other damage. A 
wizard could walk through a "not there" wall without difficulty.
When two parties perceive a there/not there object differently, the object functions
for each party according to its own perceptions. For example, a wizard hides behind a 
rock that he sees as "there." Her enemy, a fighter, perceives the rock as "not there" and 
fires arrows at the wizard. The wizard would perceive the arrows as bouncing off the 
rock, while the fighter would perceive the arrows as missing their target or falling short. 
The fighter would be subject to a check before firing each arrow to determine whether his 
perception changes (assume that the fighter must look away from the rock every time he 
nocks an arrow; each time he takes aim, this counts as a new viewing).
After the spell is cast, any objects removed from the area of effect retain their 
uncertain existence for the duration of the spell. Thus, a pair of heroes could pick up a 
treasure chest, carry it down the hall, set it down, and discover it had vanished while their 
backs were turned. Worse still, one might see the chest and the other not!
The material component is a small piece of cat fur sealed inside a small box. 

 Thunder Staff (Invocation/Evocation)
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20'x40' cone
Saving Throw: 1/2 
Upon completion of this spell, the wizard raps his staff on the ground and produces a 
thundering cone of force 5' wide at the apex, 20' wide at the base, and 40' long. All 
creatures wholly or partially within this cone must roll a successful saving throw or be 
stunned for 1d3 rounds. Stunned creatures are unable to think coherently or act during 
this time and are deafened for 1d3+1 rounds. Additionally, those who fail the save are 
hurled 4d4+4 feet by the wave of force, suffering 1 point of damage per two feet thrown. 
Intervening surfaces (walls, doors, etc.) may restrict this distance, but damage remains 
the same (4d4+4). 
If the save is successful, the victim is not stunned, but is deafened for 1d3+1 rounds 
and is hurled only half the distance.
Giant-sized or larger creatures who succeed at their saving throws are deafened but 
are not thrown, suffer no loss of hit points, and are not stunned. If the saving throw is 
failed, such creatures are hurled 2d4+2 feet, suffer one point of damage per two feet 
thrown, and are deafened and stunned.
The cone of force is considered to have a Strength of 19 for purposes of opening 
locked, barred, or magically held doors. This spell can move objects weighing up to 640 
pounds a maximum distance of 4d4+4 feet. Fragile items must make a saving throw vs. 
crushing blow or be destroyed.
The material components are a vial of rain gathered during a thunderstorm and the 
wizard's staff, which must be made of oak. The staff is not destroyed during casting. 

 Turn Pebble to Boulder (Alteration) Reversible 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
At the culmination of this spell, the caster hurls a pebble which grows and increases 
in speed, becoming a deadly boulder that inflicts 3d6+8 points of damage if it strikes the 
target. (The rules for boulders as missile weapons apply as described in the DUNGEON 
MASTER Guide. ) The caster's THAC0 is used to determine success, and the caster is 
considered to be proficient with the thrown pebble and receives no penalty for range. The 
maximum range of attack is equal to 50 feet plus 10 feet per level of the caster. Only the 
caster may throw the pebble.
The wizard can enchant one stone at 7th level and gains one stone per three levels of 
experience thereafter (two stones at 10th level, three at 13th level, etc.). Only one pebble 
may be thrown per round, and pebbles must be hurled in consecutive rounds. The spell 
has a duration in rounds equal to the number of pebbles enchanted. Each pebble requires 
a separate attack roll. Pebbles may be thrown at different targets within range.
The material components are pebbles, which revert to normal size when the spell 
expires.
The reverse of this spell, turn boulder to pebble, shrinks a boulder to the size of a 
pebble. It affects only naturally occurring rocks and can not be used to shrink a statue or a 
cut gemstone.
The number of rocks that may be affected is equal to the number of experience levels 
of the caster. Boulders must not exceed one cubic foot per level of the caster. Thus, a 
10th-level wizard could shrink 10 rocks, each of which is equal to or less than 10 cubic 
feet in size. All rocks are affected in the same round the spell is cast. Though they need 
not be touched, the boulders must be within 50 feet of the caster. Boulders that have been
shrunk remain so until dispelled. 

 Ultravision
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
An improved version of the infravision spell, ultravision allows the spell recipient 
to see perfectly in normal darkness, starlight, or moonlight to the full range of his 
unobscured daylight vision. (See Chapter 13 of the Player’s Handbook; in most outdoor 
settings, this means that the character can spot movement at 1,500 yards.) In underground 
settings, the spell enables the recipient to see up to 90 feet in nonmagical darkness. 
Magical darkness, fog, or smoke is less effective than normal against a character using 
ultravision; the spell permits the recipient to see at least 30 feet in magical darkness, and 
at least 10 feet in any kind of vaporous, foggy, or smoky atmosphere. Ultravision does 
not permit the recipient to spot invisible creatures, and it does not function in the 
presence of strong light sources (lanterns, torches, and so on).
The material component for this spell is a black agate worth at least 50 gold 
pieces.

 Unfailing Endurance
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 1 creature/level Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell enhances the natural hardiness and stamina of the affected creatures by 
rendering them virtually immune to fatigue or exhaustion. During the casting of the spell, 
the caster must touch each creature to be affected. While under the spell’s influence, the 
subjects may force march with no penalty, engage in up to 12 hours of hard labor per day 
with no fatigue (or up to 16 hours with moderate fatigue), and gain a +4 bonus to 
Strength/Stamina or Constitution/Fitness checks. In addition, the subjects gain a +4 bonus 
to saving throws against spells or magical effects that cause weakness, fatigue, or 
enfeeblement. Finally, an affected creature’s fatigue rating (from Player’s Option: 
Combat & Tactics) is doubled, and the subject gains a +4 bonus to his saving throws to 
recover from a fatigued or exhausted state.

 Unluck* (Evocation) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d10 rounds
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
With this spell, the wild mage creates a negative pattern in the random forces 
surrounding one creature. The creature is allowed a saving throw; if successful, the spell 
fails. If the saving throw is failed, random chance falls into an unlucky pattern. Any 
action involving random chance (i.e., any time a die roll affects the character) performed 
by the victim during the next 2-20 rounds requires two separate attempts; the worse result 
is always applied. (The victim rolls twice for attacks, damages, saving throws, etc., 
always using the worse die roll.)
A luckstone or similar magical device will negate unluck. Doing so, however, 
prevents the magical item from functioning for 2d10 rounds.
The material component is a piece of a broken mirror. 

 Vacancy
(Alteration, Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius/level Saving Throw: None
When a vacancy spell is cast, the wizard causes an area to appear to be vacant,
neglected, and unused. Those who behold the area see dust on the floor, cobwebs, dirt,
and other conditions typical of a long-abandoned place. If they pass through the area of
effect, they seem to leave tracks, tear away cobwebs, and so on. Unless they actually
contact some object cloaked by the spell, the place appears empty. Merely brushing an
invisible object does not cause the vacancy spell to be disturbed: Only forceful contact
grants a chance to note that all is not as it seems.
If forceful contact with a cloaked object occurs, those creatures subject to the spell can
penetrate the spell only if they discover several items that they cannot see; each being is
then entitled to a saving throw vs. spell. Failure means they believe that the objects are
invisible. A dispel magic spell cancels this spell so that the true area is seen. A true
seeing spell, a gem of seeing, and similar effects can penetrate the deception, but a detect
invisibility spell cannot.
This spell is a very powerful combination of invisibility and illusion, but it can cloak
only nonliving things. Living things are not made invisible, but their presence does not
otherwise disturb the spell.
The wizard must have a square of the finest black silk to cast this spell. This material
component must be worth at least 100 gp and is used up during spellcasting.

 Vitriolic Sphere
(Conjuration/Summoning, Elemental Water, Alchemy)
Range: 150 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 5-ft. radius Saving Throw: 1/2
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: d8
Sensory: Medium visual, Critical: Large (1d3 hits) 
 large olfactory acid
This spell conjures a one-foot sphere of glowing emerald acid that the caster can 
direct to strike any target within range. When it reaches its target, the sphere explodes 
and drenches the victim in potent acid. The victim suffers 1d4 points of damage per 
caster level (to a maximum damage of 12d4) and may attempt a saving throw vs. spell for 
half damage. If the victim fails his saving throw, he continues to suffer acid damage in 
the following rounds, sustaining two less dice of damage each round. For example, an 
8th-level wizard inflicts 8d4 damage with this spell on the first round, 6d4 on the second 
round, 4d4 on the third round, 2d4 on the fourth round, and the spell ends in the fifth 
round. Each round, the subject is entitled to a saving throw—the spell ends when he 
succeeds, or when the acid damage runs its course. The acid can also be neutralized with 
soda, ash, lye, charcoal, or removed with a large quantity of water.
The vitriolic sphere also splashes acid in a 5-foot radius around the primary 
target. Any creatures within the splash radius must save vs. paralyzation or suffer a splash 
hit that inflicts 1d4 points of damage per every five caster levels. Splash hits do not cause 
continuing damage. The material component for this spell is a drop of giant slug bile.


 Wall of Fire
(Evocation)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The wall of fire spell brings forth an immobile, blazing curtain of magical fire of
shimmering color--violet or reddish blue. The spell creates either an opaque sheet of
flame up to one 20-foot square per level of the spellcaster, or a ring with a radius of up to
10 feet + 5 feet per two levels of experience of the wizard. In either form, the wall of fire
is 20 feet high.
The wall of fire must be cast so that it is vertical with respect to the caster. One side of
the wall, selected by the caster, sends forth waves of heat, inflicting 2d4 points of damage
upon creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of damage upon those within 20 feet. In
addition, the wall inflicts 2d6 points of damage, plus 1 point of damage per level of the
spellcaster, upon any creature passing through it. Creatures especially subject to fire may
take additional damage, and undead always take twice normal damage. Note that
attempting to catch a moving creature with a newly-created wall of fire is difficult; a
successful saving throw enables the creature to avoid the wall, while its rate and direction
of movement determine which side of the created wall it is on. The wall of fire lasts as
long as the wizard concentrates on maintaining it, or one round per level of experience of
the wizard, in the event he does not wish to concentrate upon it.
The material component of the spell is phosphorus.

 Wall of Ice
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell can be cast in one of three ways: as an anchored plane of ice, as a
hemisphere, or as a horizontal sheet to fall upon creatures with the effect of an ice storm.
A) Ice plane. When this spell is cast, a sheet of strong, hard ice is created. The wall is
primarily defensive, stopping pursuers and the like. The wall is 1 inch thick per level of
experience of the wizard. It covers a 10-foot-square area per level (a 10th-level wizard
can create a wall of ice 100 feet long and 10 feet high, a wall 50 feet long and 20 feet
high, etc.). Any creature breaking through the ice suffers 2 points of damage per inch of
thickness of the wall. Fire-using creatures suffer 3 points of damage per inch, while cold
using creatures suffer only 1 point of damage per inch when breaking through. The plane
can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is anchored along one or more sides.
B) Hemisphere. This casting of the spell creates a hemisphere whose maximum radius
is equal to 3 feet plus 1 foot per caster level. Thus, a 7th-level caster can create a
hemisphere 10 feet in radius. The hemisphere lasts until it is broken, dispelled, or melted.
Note that it is possible, but difficult, to trap mobile opponents under the hemisphere.
C) Ice sheet. This casting of the spell causes a horizontal sheet to fall upon opponents.
The sheet covers a 10-foot-square area per caster level. The sheet has the same effect as
an ice storm's hail stones--3d10 points of damage inflicted to creatures beneath it.
A wall of ice cannot form in an area occupied by physical objects or creatures; its
surface must be smooth and unbroken when created. Magical fires such as fireballs and
fiery dragon breath melt a wall of ice in one round, though this creates a great cloud of
steamy fog that lasts one turn. Normal fires or lesser magical ones do not hasten the
melting of a wall of ice.
The material component of this spell is a small piece of quartz or similar rock crystal.

 Windborne
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
This spell provides a priest of elemental air with the ability to conjure a powerful 
column of wind that can bear his weight, permitting him to fly or glide for long distances. 
If used from a high place such as a mountainside or tower, the caster can glide a 
maximum horizontal distance of 20 feet per foot of initial altitude—for example, if the 
priest used this spell and launched himself from a hilltop 800 feet high, he could glide a 
maximum distance of 16,000 feet, or about 3 miles.
If windborne is cast by a priest on level ground, the initial gust carries him aloft to 
a maximum altitude of 10 feet per caster level. From that point, he may then glide 10 feet 
per foot of initial altitude. For example, a 7th-level priest would ascend to an altitude of 
70 feet and thus be able to glide for a total horizontal distance of 700 feet. He can choose 
to glide for a much shorter distance, but never less than his initial altitude.
While gliding, the priest moves at a rate of 15 (or about 450 feet) with a 
maneuverability class of D. Each round, he drops between 20 and 40 feet. He can choose 
to descend at a much more rapid pace, dropping up to 200 feet per round without risk of a 
damaging impact upon landing. The caster doesn’t gain a mastery of aerial combat with 
this spell and suffers a –2 penalty to his attack rolls and Armor Class if he becomes 
involved in combat while gliding.
The material component for this spell is the feather from a giant eagle .

 Wind Breath (Evocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Cone 60 yards long and 30 yards wide at the base
Saving Throw: 1/2
A variation of gust of wind, this spell allows the caster to fill his lungs with air and 
expel a powerful wind. The strength of this wind is about 5 miles per hour for every level 
of the caster. Those outside the area of effect do not notice the tremendous winds, though 
objects may be blown out of the spell's area into their path. The DM should determine the 
precise effects of the wind breath using the following parameters as guidelines. 
If the wind breath is 30-50 miles per hour, there is a 10 percent chance that small boats 
capsize, a 1 percent chance that ships capsize, and a 10 percent chance that a man is 
knocked down. There is a 20 percent chance that branches snap, light articles are blown 
away, and tents and sails tear. Creatures caught in the cone of the wind breath suffer 1 hit 
points of damage from blown sand and grit. 
If the wind breath is 50-70 miles per hour, there is a 70 percent chance that small boats 
capsize, a 20 percent chance that ships capsize, and a 50 percent chance that a man is 
knocked down. Trees bend and there is a 70 percent chance that branches snap, and a 20 
percent chance that a trunk snaps. Medium-sized articles are blown away, and there is a 
50 percent chance that tents and sails are torn, and a 40 percent chance that shacks are 
blown down. Creatures caught in the cone of the wind breath suffer 1-4 hit points of 
damage from sand and grit. Flying creatures are blown back 10-40 (10d4) feet.) 
If the wind breath is 70 miles per hour or more, there is a 100 percent chance that 
small boats capsize, a 70 percent chance that ships capsize, and a 70 percent chance that a 
man is knocked down and blown 10-40 (10d4) feet to suffer 1-6 hit points of damage per 
10 feet blown. There is a 70 percent chance that tree trunks snap, and a 100 percent 
chance that branches are ripped from trees. Heavy articles are blown away, medium 
articles are ripped from fastenings, and tents and sails have a 70 percent chance of being 
destroyed. There is a 20 percent chance that common buildings are blown down and a 60 
percent chance that shacks are flattened. Creatures caught in the cone of the wind breath
suffer 1-8 hit points of damage from blown objects. Flying creatures are blown back 50-
100 (40+10d6) feet. 
The material component for this spell is a handmade silk fan with a value of at least 1 
gp. 

 Wizard Eye
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is employed, the wizard creates an invisible sensory organ that sends
him visual information. The wizard eye travels at 30 feet per round if viewing an area
ahead as a human would (i.e., primarily looking at the floor), or 10 feet per round if
examining the ceiling and walls as well as the floor ahead. The wizard eye can see with
infravision up to 10 feet, and with normal vision up to 60 feet away in brightly lit areas.
The wizard eye can travel in any direction as long as the spell lasts. It has substance and a
form that can be detected (by a detect invisibility spell, for instance). Solid barriers
prevent the passage of a wizard eye, although it can pass through a space no smaller than
a small mouse hole (1 inch in diameter).
Using the eye requires the wizard to concentrate. However, if his concentration is
broken, the spell does not end--the eye merely becomes inert until the wizard again
concentrates, subject to the duration of the spell. The powers of the eye cannot be
enhanced by other spells or items. The caster is subject to any gaze attack met by the eye.
A successful dispel cast on the wizard or eye ends the spell. With respect to blindness,
magical darkness, and so on, the wizard eye is considered an independent sensory organ
of the caster.
The material component of the spell is a bit of bat fur.

 Third-Level Spells

 Accelerate Healing (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1-4 days
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the affected creature to experience natural healing at twice the 
normal rate for 1-4 days. In other words, a person affected by accelerate healing regains 
2 hit points per day of normal rest or 6 hit points per day spent resting in bed. The spell 
has no effect on potions of healing or other magical forms of healing. 

 Adaptation (Enchantment/Charm, Alteration) 
Sphere: War
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: One unit of up to 200 individuals
Saving Throw: None
This spell can be cast in two different ways. The first, appropriate for battlefield use, 
has a range of 180 yards, a casting time of one turn, and duration of 1d4+2 turns. During 
this period, the affected unit can fight in one specific type of terrain (specified by the 
caster) as if it were the favored terrain (per BATTLESYSTEM™ rules) for that unit. 
While this spell is in effect, the unit gains no benefit when fighting in their actual favored 
terrain; the magically-enforced favored terrain takes precedence. The priest can cancel 
the spell before the duration expires if desired.
The material component is a pinch of clay dust.
The second effect requires preparation in advance. The priest and unit must be within 
100 yards of a place of worship dedicated to the casting priest's deity. The casting time is 
5 turns.
At the conclusion of the casting, the unit gains the benefit described above, with two 
main differences. First, the unit does not lose the benefit of fighting in its own actual 
favored terrain (the unit effectively has two favored terrains). Second, the spell endures 
until the next sunset. Only priests of 12th level and higher can cast this variation. 
The material component is the priest's holy symbol. 

 Animate Dead
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell creates the lowest of the undead monsters, skeletons or zombies, usually
from the bones or bodies of dead humans, demihumans, or humanoids. The spell causes
these remains to become animated and obey the simple verbal commands of the caster,
regardless of how they communicated in life. The skeletons or zombies can follow the
caster, remain in an area and attack any creature (or just a specific type of creature)
entering the place, etc. The undead remain animated until they are destroyed in combat or
are turned; the magic cannot be dispelled.
The priest can animate one skeleton or one zombie for each experience level he has
attained. If creatures with more than 1+ Hit Dice are animated, the number is determined
by the monster Hit Dice. Skeletal forms have the Hit Dice of the original creature, while
zombie forms have 1 more Hit Die. Thus, a 12th-level priest could animate 12 dwarven
skeletons (or six zombies), four zombie gnolls, or a single zombie fire giant. Note that
this is based on the standard racial Hit Die norm; thus, a high-level adventurer would be
animated as a skeleton or zombie of 1 or 2 Hit Dice, and without special class or racial
abilities. The caster can, alternatively, animate two small animal skeletons (1-1 Hit Die or
less) for every level of experience he has achieved.
The spell requires a drop of blood, a piece of flesh of the type of creature being
animated, and a pinch of bone powder or a bone shard to complete the spell. Casting this
spell is not a good act, and only evil priests use it frequently.

 Astral Window (Divination) 
Sphere: Astral
Range: 5 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10'x10' area
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a "window" appears in the air before the priest, through which 
he (and any others present) can see into the Astral plane. The astral window ranges in 
size from one square foot up to a 10'x10' square, at the caster's choosing. The window is 
not mobile, and if the priest moves more than 5 yards away from it, it immediately 
vanishes and the spell ends.
By stating a subject's name, the priest may view a specific creature or object in the 
window. More than one subject may be viewed during the spell's duration. Each time a 
new subject is chosen, the window becomes streaked with grey as the Astral plane flies 
past. This continues for 1d4 rounds, until the window finally focuses upon the chosen 
subject. If the person is not in the Astral plane, the window instead chooses a random 
location. 
The window operates from both sides; creatures in the Astral plane can see the priest 
as easily as he can see them. Verbal communication is not possible, however.
Normally, creatures cannot pass through the window. If an attempt is made, there is a 
base 5% chance of success. This is modified by +1% per level or Hit Dice of the 
individual. In order to pass through, the creature or object must be small enough to fit 
through the window; otherwise, only a portion of the subject may reach through (such as 
a monster's arm or searching tongue).
By casting the astral window spell, a character who subsequently casts the 7th-level 
astral spell may choose to arrive in the Astral plane at the place shown in the window. 

 Call Lightning
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 360 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: _
When a call lightning spell is cast, there must be a storm of some sort in the area--a
rain shower, clouds and wind, hot and cloudy conditions, or even a tornado (including a
whirlwind formed by a djinn or air elemental of 7 Hit Dice or more). The caster is then
able to call down bolts of lightning. The caster can call down one bolt per turn. The caster
need not call a bolt of lightning immediately--other actions, even spellcasting, can be
performed; however, the caster must remain stationary and concentrate for a full round
each time a bolt is called. The spell has a duration of one turn per caster level. Each bolt
causes 2d8 points of electrical damage, plus an additional 1d8 points for each of the
caster's experience levels. Thus, a 4th-level caster calls down a 6d8 bolt (2d8+4d8).
The bolt of lightning flashes down in a vertical stroke at whatever distance the
spellcaster decides, up to 360 yards away. Any creature within a 10-foot radius of the
path or the point where the lightning strikes suffers full damage unless a successful
saving throw vs. spell is rolled, in which case only one-half damage is taken.
Because it requires a storm overhead, this spell can only be used outdoors. It does not
function under ground or under water.

 Caltrops (Evocation) 
Sphere: War
Range: 20 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a priest to plant a section of ground with magically created caltrops. 
The spell can create two kinds of caltrops: infantry and cavalry. The first are of small size 
and are designed to harm foot soldiers. The latter are larger and cause serious damage to 
cavalry or units composed of size L or larger creatures. Cavalry caltrops are so large that 
size M or smaller creatures can easily step around them. This prevents damage to infantry 
units.
Each time a unit moves into a planted area, the unit suffers an attack of AD4 (for 
infantry caltrops) or AD6 (for cavalry caltrops). Units charging through a planted area 
suffer double damage. If a unit ends its movement in a caltrop-sown region, it suffers 
another attack when it moves out of the area.
This spell can create a rectangular field of infantry caltrops up to 160 square yards in 
area (e.g., 4 yards x 40 yards, 2 yards x 80 yards, etc.), or a field of cavalry caltrops up to 
90 square yards in area (e.g., 3 yards x 30 yards, 2 yards x 45 yards, etc.).
Ordinary caltrops make no distinction between friend or foe; all creatures entering a 
caltrop-sown area suffer the same consequences. The same is true of magical caltrops, 
with one exception: the casting priest can terminate the spell at any time, causing the 
caltrops to vanish and leaving the terrain clear.
Unlike normal caltrops, a region sown with magical caltrops cannot be "swept" clear; 
the magical caltrops remain in place until the spell terminates.
The material component is a golden caltrop. 

 Choose Future (Divination) 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
In the round immediately following the casting of this spell, the affected creature is 
allowed two rolls for any normal attack roll, initiative roll, or saving throw. The affected 
creature can then choose the roll he prefers.
For example, a priest casts choose future on a warrior companion. In the next round, the 
warrior attacks an enemy with his sword. The warrior makes two attack rolls instead of 
one, then chooses which roll will determine the outcome of his attack.
The material components are two grains of sand and a rose petal. 

 Continual Light
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Sun
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell is similar to a light spell, except that it is as bright as full daylight and lasts
until negated by magical darkness or by a dispel magic spell. Creatures with penalties in
bright light suffer them in this spell's area of effect. As with the light spell, this can be
cast into the air, onto an object, or at a creature. In the third case, the continual light
affects the space about 1 foot behind a creature that successfully rolls its saving throw vs.
spell (a failed saving throw means the continual light is centered on the creature and
moves as it moves). Note that this spell also blinds a creature if it is successfully cast
upon the creature's visual organs. If the spell is cast on a small object that is then placed
in a light-proof covering, the spell effects are blocked until the covering is removed.
Continual light brought into an area of magical darkness (or vice versa) cancels the
darkness so that the otherwise prevailing light conditions exist in the overlapping areas of
effect. A direct casting of a continual light spell against a similar or weaker magical
darkness cancels both.
This spell eventually consumes the material it is cast upon, but the process takes far
longer than the time in a typical campaign. Extremely hard and expensive materials might
last hundreds or even thousands of years.
The reverse spell, continual darkness, causes complete absence of light (pitch
blackness), similar to the darkness spell but of greater duration and area.

 Create Campsite (Conjuration/Summoning) Reversible 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 50-foot radius
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster generates a squadron of tiny invisible servants who create a 
campsite for the caster and his companions. The caster indicates the desired area for the 
campsite (an area of 50-foot radius or less) and the number of persons the campsite is to 
accommodate (a number of persons equal to three times the level of the caster).
The servants clear the area of debris, set up tents and bedrolls, start a campfire, fetch 
water, and prepare a bland meal. The campsite is so skillfully prepared that it blends with 
the surrounding terrain, reducing the chance that the camp could be noticed by 50%. 
Campfires, loud noises, and other activities can negate this.
The entire process takes 4-16 (4d4) rounds to complete.
The servants make camp with the gear and equipment provided for them; otherwise, 
the servants will improvise with materials available in the immediate area (50 yards of 
the designated campsite). For instance, if the party has no tents or beds, the servants will 
construct crude but comfortable beds of weeds and grass and temporary shelters of leaves 
and branches. If no materials are available, such as in the desert or similarly barren 
terrain, the servants will do their best to make the party as comfortable as possible within 
the environmental limitations.
The servants cannot fight for the party, deliver messages, or take any other actions 
other than creating the campsite.
The material components are a piece of string, a bit of wood, and a drop of water.
The reverse, break camp, causes the invisible servants to strike a campsite (an area of 
50-foot radius or less). The servants extinguish fires, dispose of debris, and pack gear for 
a number of people equal to three times the level of the caster. The entire process takes 4-
16 (4d4) rounds to complete. When completed, all traces of the campsite are eliminated. 
The material components are the same as those for create campsite.  

 Create Food & Water
(Alteration)
Sphere: Creation
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the priest causes food and water to appear. The food thus
created is highly nourishing if rather bland; each cubic foot of the material sustains three
human-sized creatures or one horse-sized creature for a full day. The food decays and
becomes inedible within 24 hours, although it can be restored for another 24 hours by
casting a purify food and water spell upon it. The water created by this spell is the same
as that created by the 1st-level priest spell create water. For each experience level the
priest has attained, 1 cubic foot of food or water is created by the spell. For example, a
2nd-level priest could create 1 cubic foot of food and 1 cubic foot of water.

 Cure Blindness or Deafness
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
By touching the creature afflicted, the priest employing the spell can permanently cure
some forms of blindness or deafness. This spell does not restore or repair visual or
auditory organs damaged by injury or disease.
Its reverse, cause blindness or deafness, requires a successful touch (successful attack
roll) on the victim. If the victim rolls a successful saving throw, the effect is negated. If
the saving throw is failed, a nondamaging magical blindness or deafness results.
 A deafened creature can react only to what it can see or feel, and suffers a -1 penalty to
surprise rolls, a +1 penalty to its initiative rolls, and a 20% chance of spell failure for
spells with verbal components. A blinded creature suffers a -4 penalty to its attack rolls, a
+4 penalty to its Armor Class, and a +2 penalty to its initiative rolls.

 Cure Disease
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to cure most diseases by placing his hand upon the
diseased creature. The affliction rapidly disappears thereafter, making the cured creature
whole and well in from one turn to 10 days, depending on the type of disease and the
state of its advancement when the cure took place. (The DM must adjudicate these
conditions.) The spell is also effective against parasitic monsters such as green slime, rot
grubs, and others. When cast by a priest of at least 12th level, this spell cures lycanthropy
if cast within three days of the infection. Note that the spell does not prevent reoccurrence
of a disease if the recipient is again exposed.
The reverse of the cure disease spell is cause disease. To be effective, the priest must
touch the intended victim, and the victim must fail a saving throw vs. spell. The severity
of the disease is decided by the priest (debilitating or fatal). The exact details of the
disease are decided by the DM, but the following are typical:
Debilitating: The disease takes effect in 1d6 turns, after which the creature loses 1
point of Strength per hour until his Strength is reduced to 2 or less, at which time the
recipient is weak and virtually helpless. If a creature has no Strength rating, it loses 10%
of its hit points per Strength loss, down to 10% of its original hit points. If the disease
also affects hit points, use the more severe penalty. Recovery requires a period of 1d3
weeks.
Fatal: This wasting disease is effective immediately. Infected creatures receive no
benefit from cure wound spells while the disease is in effect; wounds heal at only 10% of
the natural rate. The disease proves fatal within 1d6 months and can be cured only by
magical means. Each month the disease progresses, the creature loses 2 points of
Charisma, permanently.
The inflicted disease can be cured by the cure disease spell. Lycanthropy cannot be
caused.

 Dispel Magic
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: 60 yds Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube or 1 item Saving Throw: None
When a priest casts this spell, it has a chance to neutralize or negate the magic it comes
in contact with as follows:
First, it has a chance to remove spells and spell-like effects (including device effects
and innate abilities) from creatures or objects. Second, it may disrupt the casting or use of
these in the area of effect at the instant the dispel is cast. Third, it may destroy magical
potions (which are treated as 12th level for purposes of this spell).
Each effect or potion in the spell's area is checked to determine if it is dispelled. The
caster can always dispel his own magic; otherwise, the chance depends on the difference
in level between the magical effect and the caster. The base chance of successfully
dispelling is 11 or higher on 1d20. If the caster is of higher level than the creator of the
effect to be dispelled, the difference is subtracted from this base number needed. If the
caster is of lower level, the difference is added to the base. A die roll of 20 always
succeeds and a die roll of 1 always fails. Thus, if a caster is 10 levels higher than the
magic he is trying to dispel, only a roll of 1 prevents the effect from being dispelled.
A dispel magic can affect only a specially enchanted item (such as a magical scroll,
ring, wand, rod, staff, miscellaneous item, weapon, shield, or armor) if it is cast directly
upon the item. This renders the item nonoperational for 1d4 rounds. An item possessed or
carried by a creature has the creature's saving throw against this effect; otherwise, it is
automatically rendered nonoperational. An interdimensional interface (such as a bag of
holding) rendered nonoperational is temporarily closed. Note that an item's physical
properties are unchanged: A nonoperational magical sword is still a sword.
Artifacts and relics are not subject to this spell, but some of their spell-like effects may
be, at the DM's option.
Note that this spell, if successful, will release charmed and similarly beguiled
creatures. Certain spells or effects cannot be dispelled; these are listed in the spell
descriptions.

               Summary of Dispel Effects
Source of Effect                    Resists As                 Result of Dispel
Caster                              None                       Dispel automatic
Other caster/ innate ability        Level/HD of other caster   Effect negated 
Wand                                6th level                  Effect negated
Staff                               8th level                  Effect negated
Potion                             12th level                  Potion destroyed
Other magical item                 12th, unless special        *
Artifact                           DM discretion               DM discretion

* Effect negated; if cast directly on item, item becomes nonoperational for 1d4 rounds.

 Efficacious Monster Ward (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell prevents monsters of 2 or fewer Hit Dice from entering the area of effect. 
Such creatures are allowed a saving throw; success indicates that they avoid the spell's 
effects and are able to enter the area of effect.
The spell affects a cubic area whose sides equal the caster's level times 10 feet (for 
example, a 9th-level caster could affect an area equal to a 90' x 90'x 90' cube).
Monsters within the area of effect when the spell is cast are not affected; however, 
when they leave the area of effect, they cannot return. Monsters outside the area of effect 
can hurl rocks, spears, and other missile weapons at targets inside and can also cast spells 
into the warded area.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a pinch of salt. 

 Emotion Control (Alteration, Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought, Charm
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature/5 levels of the caster within a 20' cube
Saving Throw: Special
This spell can be cast in one of two ways: in a manner that affects the priest, or in a 
manner that affects a subject other than the priest.
The first method affects only the priest and allows him to shield his true emotions 
from magical examination. Thus, it can block wizard spells such as ESP or priest spells 
such as emotion read. While emotion control is in effect, anyone using one of these spells 
will sense the emotion designated by the priest rather than his true emotions. When the 
priest casts emotion control, he designates the false emotion he wishes to be revealed.
This use of emotion control also gives the priest a +2 bonus to saving throws against 
the following spells: spook, taunt, irritation, know alignment, scare, emotion, fear, and 
phantasmal killer. When any of these spells are cast on the priest, he is immediately 
aware of the attempt, although he does not learn the source of the spell.
If another character casts emotion read, ESP, or a similar spell on the priest, the priest 
must make a saving throw vs. spells with a +1 bonus for each 5 levels of the priest. If the 
priest successfully saves, the other spellcaster reads the false emotion; if the priest fails 
the saving throw, the spellcaster reads the priest's true emotion.
The second use of this spell allows the priest to create a single emotional reaction in 
the subject(s) (similar to the wizard spell emotion). Some typical emotions follow, but the 
DM may allow other similar effects.
Courage: The subject becomes berserk, gaining +1 to attack rolls and +3 to damage, 
and temporarily gaining 4 hit points (damage against the subject is deducted from these 
temporary points first). The subject need never check morale, and receives a +5 bonus to 
saving throws against the various forms of fear. Courage counters (and is countered by) 
fear.
Fear: The subject flees from the priest for the duration of the spell, even if this takes 
him out of spell range. Fear counters (and is countered by) courage.
Friendship: The subject reacts positively to any encounter; in game terms, any result 
of a roll on the Encounter Reactions table (Table 59 in the DMG ) is moved one column 
to the left. Thus, a threatening PC becomes cautious, an indifferent PC becomes friendly, 
etc. Friendship counters (and is countered by) hate.
Happiness: The subject experiences feelings of warmth, well-being, and confidence, 
modifying all reaction rolls by +3. The subject is unlikely to attack unless provoked. 
Happiness counters (and is countered by) sadness.
Hate: The subject reacts negatively to any encounter; in game terms, any result of a 
roll on the Encounter Reactions table is moved one column to the right (i.e., a friendly PC 
becomes indifferent, a cautious PC becomes threatening, etc.). Hate counters (and is 
countered by) friendship.
Hope: The subject's morale is improved by +2. His saving throw rolls, attack, and 
damage rolls are all improved by +1 while this emotion is in effect. Hope counters (and is 
countered by) hopelessness.
Hopelessness: The subject's morale suffers a -10 penalty. In addition, in the round in 
which the emotion is initially established, all subjects must immediately make a morale 
check. Hopelessness counters (and is countered by) hope.
Sadness: The subject feels uncontrollably glum and is prone to fits of morose 
introspection. All attack rolls suffer a -1 penalty and initiative rolls suffer a +1 penalty. 
The subject's chance of being surprised is increased by -2. Sadness counters (and is 
countered by) happiness.
All subjects of the second version, even willing targets, must save vs. spell to resist 
the emotion. In addition to all other modifiers, the saving throw is modified by -1 for 
every three levels of the priest casting the spell.
The material component for both versions of the spell is a small bunch of fleece or 
uncarded wool that is consumed in the casting. 

 Extradimensional Detection (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers, Divination
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One 10'-wide path, 60 feet long
Saving Throw: None
When extradimensional detection is cast, the priest detects the existence of any 
extradimensional spaces or pockets in a path 10 feet wide and 60 feet long in the 
direction he is facing. The priest may turn, scanning a 60 arc each round, or may move 
slowly while the spell is in effect to change the sweep of the detection.
Extradimensional spaces include those created by spells such as rope trick and those 
contained within such items as bags of holding and portable holes. The priest does not 
automatically know the size of the space or its source.
This spell detects interplanar gates and the "gate" opened by the spell 
extradimensional folding. 
The spell can be blocked by a stone wall of one foot thickness or more, a one-inch 
thickness of solid metal, or one yard or more of solid wood.
 

 Feign Death
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1/2_
Area of Effect: Person touched Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster or any other willing person can be put into a
cataleptic state that is impossible to distinguish from actual death. Although the person
affected can smell, hear, and know what is going on, no feeling or sight of any sort is
possible; thus, any wounding or mistreatment of the body is not felt, no reaction occurs,
and damage is only one-half normal. In addition, paralysis, poison, or energy level drain
does not affect a person under the influence of this spell, but poison injected or otherwise
introduced into the body becomes effective when the spell recipient is no longer under
the influence of this spell, although a saving throw is permitted. However, the spell offers
no protection from causes of certain death--being crushed under a landslide, etc. Only a
willing individual can be affected by a feign death spell. The priest is able to end the spell
effect at any time, but it requires a full round for bodily functions to begin again.
Note that, unlike the wizard version of this spell, only people can be affected, and that
those of any level can be affected by the priest casting this spell.

 Flame Walk
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd. + 1/level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature(s) touched Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster empowers one or more creatures to withstand
nonmagical fires of temperatures up to 2,000 F. (enabling them to walk upon molten
lava). It also confers a +2 bonus to saving throws against magical fire and reduces
damage from such fires by one-half, even if the saving throw is failed. For every
experience level above the minimum required to cast the spell (5th), the priest can affect
an additional creature. This spell is not cumulative with resist fire spells or similar
protections.
The material components of the spell are the priest's holy symbol and at least 500 gp of
powdered ruby per affected creature.

 Glyph of Warding
(Abjuration, Evocation)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until discharged Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
A glyph of warding is a powerful inscription magically drawn to prevent unauthorized 
or hostile creatures from passing, entering, or opening. It can be used to guard a small
bridge, to ward an entry, or as a trap on a chest or box.
The priest must set the conditions of the ward; typically any creature violating the
warded area without speaking the name of the glyph is subject to the magic it stores. A
successful saving throw vs. spell enables the creature to escape the effects of the glyph.
Glyphs can be set according to physical characteristics, such as creature type, size, and
weight. Glyphs can also be set with respect to good or evil, or to pass those of the caster's
religion. They cannot be set according to class, Hit Dice, or level. Multiple glyphs cannot
be cast on the same area; although if a cabinet had three drawers, each could be
separately warded.
When the spell is cast, the priest weaves a tracery of faintly glowing lines around the
warding sigil. For every 5 square feet of area to be protected, one round is required to
trace the warding lines of the glyph. The caster can affect an area equal to a square the
sides of which are the same as his level, in feet. The glyph can be placed to conform to
any shape up to the limitations of the caster's total square footage. Thus, a 6th-level caster
could place a glyph on a 6-foot x 6-foot square, a 4-foot x 9-foot rectangle, a 2-foot x 18-
foot band, or a 1-foot by 36-foot strip. When the spell is completed, the glyph and tracery
become invisible.
The priest traces the glyph with incense, which, if the area exceeds 50 square feet,
must be sprinkled with powdered diamond (at least 2,000 gp worth).
Typical glyphs shock for 1d4 points of electrical damage per level of the spellcaster,
explode for a like amount of fire damage, paralyze, blind, deafen, and so forth. The DM
may allow any harmful priest spell effect to be used as a glyph, provided the caster is of
sufficient level to cast the spell. Successful saving throws either reduce effects by one-half or negate them,
 according to the glyph employed. Glyphs cannot be affected or
bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled by
magic and foiled by high-level thieves using their find-and-remove-traps skill.
The DM may decide that the exact glyphs available to a priest depend on his religion,
and he might make new glyphs available according to the magical research rules.

 Helping Hand (Evocation) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
When a priest is trapped or otherwise endangered, this spell can summon help. The 
spell creates a hovering, ghostly image of a hand about one foot high. The caster can 
command it to locate a character or creature of the caster's choice based on a physical 
description. The caster can specify race, sex, and appearance, but not ambiguous factors 
such as level, alignment, or class.
After the hand receives its orders, it begins to search for the indicated creature, flying 
at a movement rate of 48. The hand can search within a 5-mile radius of the caster.
If the hand is unable to locate the indicated creature, it returns to the caster (provided 
he is still within the area of effect). The hand displays an outstretched palm, indicating 
that no such character or creature could be found. The hand then disappears.
If the hand locates the indicated subject, the hand beckons the subject to follow it. If 
the subject follows, the hand points in the direction of the caster, leading the subject in 
the most direct, feasible route. The hand hovers 10 feet in front of the subject, moving 
before him. Once the hand leads the subject to the caster, it disappears.
The subject is not compelled to follow the hand or help the caster. If the subject 
chooses not to follow the hand, the hand continues to beckon for the duration of the spell, 
then disappears. If the spell expires while the subject is en route to the caster, the hand 
disappears; the subject will have to rely on his own devices to locate the caster. 
If there is more than one subject within a 5-mile radius that meets the caster's 
description, the hand locates the closest creature. If that creature refuses to follow the 
hand, the hand will not seek out a second subject.
The ghostly hand has no physical form. The hand can be seen only by the caster and 
potential targets. It cannot engage in combat or execute any other task aside from locating 
the subject and leading him back to the caster. The hand will not pass through solid 
objects, but can pass through small cracks and slits.
The material component is a black silk glove. 

 Hold Animal
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1-4 animals in 40-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the caster holds one to four animals rigid. Animals affected are
normal or giant-sized mammals, birds, or reptiles, but not monsters such as centaurs,
gorgons, harpies, naga, etc. Apes, bears, crocodiles, dogs, eagles, foxes, giant beavers,
and similar animals are subject to this spell. The hold lasts for two rounds per caster
level. The caster decides how many animals can be affected, but the greater the number,
the better chance each has to successfully save against the spell. Each animal gets a
saving throw: If only one is the subject of the spell, it has a penalty of -4 on its roll; if two
are subject, each receives a penalty of -2 on its roll; if three are subject, each receives a
penalty of -1 on its roll; and if four are subject, each gets an unmodified saving throw.
A maximum body weight of 400 pounds (100 pounds for nonmammals) per animal per
caster level can be affected--for example, an 8th-level caster can affect up to four 3,200-
pound mammals or a like number of 800-pound nonmammals, such as birds or reptiles.

 Invisibility Purge (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-foot square/priest
Saving Throw: None
All invisible creatures who enter an area enchanted with invisibility purge instantly 
become visible. Invisibility -related spells do not take effect within the boundaries of the 
enchanted area, and magical devices such as potions of invisibility do not function. 
Creatures with the natural ability to become invisible are unable to use this ability within 
the area of effect. Invisible objects carried into the warded area also become visible.
Invisible creatures or persons within the area of effect when invisibility purge is cast 
remain invisible; however, if such creatures exit the area of effect and later re-enter, they 
instantly become visible. Such creatures also lose any natural ability to turn invisible as 
long as they remain within the area of effect.
A creature who consumes a potion of invisibility outside the warded area becomes 
invisible normally, but becomes visible when he enters the area of effect; if the duration 
of the potion of invisibility has not yet expired when he exits the area of effect, he 
becomes invisible again outside the area.
Creatures who are invisible in their natural state or have no visible form (such as 
invisible stalkers) are not affected by this spell.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a silver mirror no more 
than three inches in diameter.
The invisibility purge can be cast as a cooperative magic spell. The potency of this 
spell can be increased if several priests cast it at the same time. The duration of the spell 
is then equal to one turn per level of the most powerful priest, plus one turn for every 
contributing priest. Each priest also increases the area of effect by one 10'x 10' square 
(these areas must be contiguous). Thus, a 9th-level priest and two 5th-level priests could 
create a 30'x 10' invisibility purge area having a duration of 11 turns.

 Know Customs (Divination) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: Special
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell allows a caster to gain general knowledge of the customs, laws, and social 
etiquette of a tribe or village. The caster must be within 30 yards of a member of the tribe 
or village for the spell to have effect. The selected villager must possess the knowledge 
sought by the caster; for instance, he cannot be an infant, nor can he be mentally unstable 
or dead (although he can be asleep or unconscious).
The selected villager is allowed a saving throw; if he succeeds, the spell fails.
If the saving throw fails, the caster gains a general knowledge of the villager's local 
laws and customs, including those that apply to relevant tribal or clan types (such as 
customs observed by all giants). Typical information revealed by know customs includes 
common courtesies (outsiders must avert their eyes when addressing local officials), local 
restrictions (no animals or unaccompanied elves within the city limits), important 
festivals, and common passwords that are known by the majority of citizens (such as a 
phrase necessary to pass the guards at the main gate). Additionally, the spell gives the 
caster a +1 reaction adjustment to encounters with members of the relevant tribe or 
village.
Knowing the local laws and customs does not guarantee that the caster will conduct 
himself properly. Know customs is to be used as a guide; the DM is free to adjust the 
quality of information provided by a villager. 

 Line of Protection (Abjuration) Reversible 
Sphere: Protection
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 30-yard line
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This cooperative spell requires at least two priests to cast the spell simultaneously. 
During the casting, the priests determine whether the line will be stationary or portable.
If the spell is stationary, each priest must inscribe a magical sigil on parallel facing 
surfaces, such as facing walls of a gatehouse or two tree trunks. If the spell is portable, 
the priests must stand at each end of the line, thereby anchoring it. 
After the spell is cast, a shimmering field of force appears between the two anchors 
(the sigils or priests). The field is 10 feet high and sparkles with energy. Objects on the 
opposite side of the translucent field, while recognizable, are hazy and indistinct.
The field causes 1d3 points of damage to all creatures passing through it; evil 
creatures and undead suffer 1d8 points of damage from the field. Creatures that roll a 
successful saving throw suffer no damage. Creatures that can fly over the field, burrow 
under it, or teleport to the other side are immune to damage.
If the spell is cast in its portable form, the priests can move at half their movement 
rates (limited to the rate of the slower priest). The priests can take no other action, since 
all their energy is spent in walking and maintaining the field.
Once created, the field cannot be increased or decreased in length and must remain 
straight. The priests could maneuver by pivoting, but could not walk toward each other or 
bend the field around a corner. If the line of sight between the two priests is blocked by 
any object of greater than 5' diameter, the spell immediately fails. Thus, creatures, low 
walls, young trees, pillars, and similar objects will not disrupt the spell.
As a cooperative spell, several priests can link together to create a longer field. Each 
priest (or sigil) forms the end of one field and the beginning of another, much like 
fenceposts. Each section of the spell must extend in a straight line, but the field can be 
bent at each junction. Four priests could form a long line, a square, or a Z pattern. The 
restrictions on moving the fields apply as outlined above. The DM may apply movement 
penalties depending on the complexity of the pattern. 
The material components are the priests' croziers, staves, or religious standards, held 
aloft by each caster.
The reverse of this spell, line of destruction, causes 1d3 damage to all creatures 
passing through it. It causes 1d8 damage to paladins and creatures of good alignment who 
pass through it. Creatures that roll a successful saving throw suffer no damage. 

 Locate Object
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 8 hrs. Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
This spell helps locate a known or familiar object. The priest casts the spell, slowly
turns, and will sense when he is facing in the direction of the object to be located,
provided the object is within range--for example, 90 yards for 3rd-level priests, 100 yards
for 4th, 110 yards for 5th, etc. The spell locates such objects as apparel, jewelry,
furniture, tools, weapons, or even a ladder or stairway. Once the caster has fixed in his
mind the items sought, the spell locates only that item. Attempting to find a specific item,
such as a kingdom's crown, requires an accurate mental image. If the image is not close
enough to the actual item, the spell does not work; in short, desired but unique objects
cannot be located by this spell unless they are known by the caster. The spell is blocked
by lead.
The casting requires the use of a piece of lodestone.
The reversal, obscure object, hides an object from location by spell, crystal ball, or
similar means for eight hours. The caster must touch the object being concealed.
Neither application of the spell affects living creatures.

 Magical Vestment
(Enchantment)
Sphere: Protection
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This spell enchants the caster's vestment, providing protection at least the equivalent of
chain mail (AC 5). The vestment gains a +1 enchantment for each three levels of the
priest beyond 5th level, to a maximum of AC 1 at 17th level. The magic lasts for five
rounds per level of the caster, or until the caster loses consciousness. If the vestment is
worn with other armors, only the best AC (either the armor or the vestment) is used; this
protection is not cumulative with any other AC protection.
The material components are the vestment to be enchanted and the priest's holy
symbol, which are not expended.

 Meld Into Stone
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 8 rds. + 1d8 rds. Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the priest to meld his body and possessions into a single block of
stone. The stone must be large enough to accommodate his body in all three dimensions.
When the casting is complete, the priest and not more than 100 pounds of nonliving gear
merge with the stone. If either condition is violated, the spell fails and is wasted.
While in the stone, the priest remains in contact, however tenuous, with the face of the
stone through which he melded. The priest remains aware of the passage of time. Nothing
that goes on outside the stone can be seen or heard, however. Minor physical damage to
the stone does not harm the priest, but its partial destruction, if enough so that the caster
no longer fits, expels the priest with 4d8 points of damage. The stone's destruction expels
the priest and slays him instantly, unless he rolls a successful saving throw vs. spell.
The magic lasts for 1d8+8 rounds, with the variable part of the duration rolled secretly
by the DM. At any time before the duration expires, the priest can step out of the stone
through the stone surface he entered. If the duration runs out, or the effect is dispelled
before the priest exits the stone, he is violently expelled and suffers 4d8 points of
damage.
The following spells harm the priest if cast upon the stone that he is occupying: stone
to flesh expels the priest and inflicts 4d8 points of damage; stone shape causes 4d4 points
of damage, but does not expel the priest; transmute rock to mud expels and slays him
instantly unless he rolls a successful saving throw vs. spell; and passwall expels the priest
without damage.

 Memory Read (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 5 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell allows the priest to read the memory of a single subject. The priest 
experiences the memory with the same intensity as the subject. The time required to view 
a memory is one-fiftieth of the time that the actual event lasted. Thus, a priest can view 
the memory of an event that lasted for one hour in a little more than one round. The 
subject experiences the memory at the same time the caster reads it.
The subject must have an Intelligence score of 5 or more and must remain within 
range of the priest throughout the time it takes to read the desired memory. Priests can 
cast this spell on unconscious, sleeping, held, or paralyzed creatures.
The subject receives a saving throw when the priest casts the spell (this saving throw 
is allowed even if the subject is asleep or otherwise unaware of the attempt). In addition, 
if the memory that the priest wants to view concerns something the subject wants to keep 
secret, or is something that the subject is trying to suppress, the subject receives a +5 
bonus to the saving throw. If the memory the priest wishes to view is more than six 
months old, the subject receives a second saving throw, with bonuses depending on the 
age of the memory as follows: 

Age of Memory Bonus 
 6-12 months 0
 1 to 4 years +1 
 5 years or more +3 

If the subject succeeds either of these saving throws, the spell fails.
This spell creates a mental drain on the priest, causing him to temporarily lose 1-3 
points of Constitution. These can be regained only after eight hours of rest. The spell 
cannot be cast again until the priest's constitution is restored.
The material component is a small piece of linen cloth with threads of gold 
interspersed throughout its weave. This is consumed during the casting. 

 Miscast Magic (Invocation/Evocation) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 40 yards+10 yards/level
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
Miscast magic can be cast only on a wizard. It causes the next spell cast by the 
affected wizard to be chosen randomly from his memorized spells of the same or lower 
level. Thus, if a wizard affected by miscast magic had four 1st-level spells memorized ( 
armor, feather fall, jump, and sleep) and he attempted to cast the sleep spell, the DM 
would determine the resulting spell randomly from the wizard's four memorized spells. 
The wizard has only a 25% chance of casting the sleep spell.
Only spells currently memorized are eligible to be exchanged with the desired spell. 
If a wizard had only one spell memorized, the miscast magic would have no effect and 
the wizard's spell would be cast normally.
The miscast spell operates normally. If a wizard tried to levitate a companion but a 
web spell resulted, the companion would be trapped by the webs and subject to all 
resulting effects. If the target of the spell were in range of the levitate spell but not in 
range of the web, the spell would be lost in a fizzle of energy and the web spell would be 
wiped from the caster's memory.
The wizard who casts the spell performs the proper verbal and somatic components of 
the spell he wishes to cast; he does not discover the altered results until the wrong spell 
takes effect. The wizard will also discover that the material component for the resulting 
spell has vanished (in addition to the material component for the desired spell).
Wizards who are targets of miscast magic are allowed a saving throw vs. spell to 
avoid the effect.

 Moment Reading (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the priest to determine the "tenor of the now"--in other words, to 
learn the "force" that is most dominant at the time. To cast the spell, the priest generates a 
series of random numbers and then studies the pattern contained in that string of 
numbers. This pattern contains information about current conditions.
In game terms, when this spell is cast, the DM communicates to the priest's player a 
single word or short phrase (no more than five words) describing the "tone" of the 
situation. Examples of suitable "tones" are "imminent danger" (the DM knows a dragon 
is approaching the area); "peace and tranquility" (the woods in which the PCS camp may 
look threatening, but the area is actually free of evil influence); or "betrayal" (one of the 
PCS' hirelings is actually a spy of their enemy). The DM can make this comment cryptic, 
but it should always be accurate and contain some useful information.
This spell has no specified area of effect. The result of moment reading will always 
concern the priest and anyone else in his immediate vicinity, but the definition of 
"vicinity" will vary depending on the circumstances. For example, the tenor of the 
moment might be "severe danger" if the priest is entering the territory of a dragon who 
attacks interlopers on sight.
The tenor of the moment is always personally applicable to the priest. For example, 
even if the priest is in a nation dangerously close to war with its neighbor, this condition 
will not appear in the tenor of the moment unless the priest is personally involved (if he's 
currently in the direct path of an invading army, for instance).
One casting of this spell tends to "taint" subsequent castings of the same spell unless 
they are separated by a minimum length of time. If a priest casts this spell twice within 12 
hours, the second reading gives the same result as the first, regardless of the actual 
situation. If a second priest casts the spell within 12 hours of another priest's use of the 
spell, he receives an accurate reading. 
The material component is a set of 36 small disks made of polished bone engraved 
with runes that represent numbers. These disks are not consumed in the casting. 

 Negative Plane Protection
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection, Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell affords the caster or touched creature partial protection from undead
monsters with Negative Energy plane connections (such as shadows, wights, wraiths,
spectres, or vampires) and certain weapons and spells that drain energy levels. The
negative plane protection spell opens a channel to the Positive Energy plane, possibly
offsetting the effect of the negative energy attack. A protected creature struck by a
negative energy attack is allowed a saving throw vs. death magic. If successful, the
energies cancel with a bright flash of light and a thunderclap. The protected creature
suffers only normal hit point damage from the attack and does not suffer any drain of
experience or Strength, regardless of the number of levels the attack would have drained.
An attacking undead creature suffers 2d6 points of damage from the positive energy; a
draining wizard or weapon receives no damage.
This protection is proof against only one such attack, dissipating immediately whether
or not the saving throw was successful. If the saving throw is failed, the spell recipient
suffers double the usual physical damage, in addition to the loss of experience or Strength
that normally occurs. The protection lasts for one turn per level of the priest casting the
spell, or until the protected creature is struck by a negative energy attack. This spell
cannot be cast on the Negative Energy plane.

 Pass Without Trace, 10' Radius (Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level of caster
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Radius 10 feet around caster
Saving Throw: None
Identical in function to pass without trace, pass without trace, 10' radius affects 
everyone within 10 feet of the caster. The effect moves with the caster, so creatures must 
stay within 10 feet of the caster to continue to avoid leaving tracks. A creature who 
leaves the area of effect can then be tracked normally. Creatures moving into the area of 
effect after casting are unaffected.
The material component is a sprig of pine burned to ash. Upon casting the spell, the 
character scatters the powder in a circle.

 Plant Growth
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 160 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
The plant growth spell enables the caster to choose either of two different uses. The
first causes normal vegetation to grow, entwine, and entangle to form a thicket or jungle
that creatures must hack or force a way through at a movement rate of 10 feet per round
(or 20 feet per round for larger-than-man-sized creatures). Note that the area must have
brush and trees in it in order for this spell to take effect. Briars, bushes, creepers, lianas,
roots, saplings, thistles, thorn, trees, vines, and weeds become so thick and overgrown in
the area of effect as to form a barrier. The area of effect is a square 20 feet on a side per
level of experience of the caster, in any square or rectangular shape that the caster decides
upon at the time of the spellcasting. Thus, an 8th-level caster can affect a maximum area
of a 160-foot x 160-foot square, a 320-foot x 80-foot rectangle, a 640-foot x 40-foot
rectangle, a 1,280-foot x 20-foot rectangle, etc. The spell's effects persist in the area until
it is cleared by labor, fire, or such magical means as a dispel magic spell.
The second use of the spell affects a one-mile square area. The DM secretly makes a
saving throw (based on the caster's level) to see if the spell takes effect. If successful, the
spell renders plants more vigorous, fruitful, and hardy, increasing yields by 20% to 50%
([1d4+1] x 10%), given a normal growing season. The spell does not prevent disaster in
the form of floods, drought, fire, or insects, although even in these cases the plants
survive better than expected. This effect lasts only for the life cycle of one season, the
winter "death" marking the end of a life cycle even for the sturdiest of trees. In many
farming communities, this spell is normally cast at planting time as part of the spring
festivals.

 Prayer
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
By means of the prayer spell, the priest brings special favor upon himself and his party
and causes harm to his enemies. Those in the area at the instant the spell is completed are
affected for the duration of the spell. When the spell is completed, all attack and damage
rolls and saving throws made by those in the area of effect who are friendly to the priest
gain +1 bonuses, while those of the priest's enemies suffer -1 penalties. Once the prayer
spell is uttered, the priest can do other things, unlike a chant, which he must continue to
make the spell effective. If another priest of the same religious persuasion (not merely the
same alignment) is chanting when a prayer is cast, the effects combine to +2 and -2, as
long as both are in effect at once.
The priest needs a silver holy symbol, prayer beads, or a similar device as the material
component of this spell.

 Protection From Fire
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection, Elemental (Fire)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The effect of a protection from fire spell differs according to whether the recipient of
the magic is the caster or some other creature. In either case, the spell lasts no longer than
one turn per caster level.
If the spell is cast upon the caster, it confers complete invulnerability to: normal fires
(torches, bonfires, oil fires, and the like); exposure to magical fires such as fiery dragon
breath; spells such as burning hands, fireball, fire seeds, fire storm, flame strike, and
meteor swarm; hell hound or pyrohydra breath, etc. The invulnerability lasts until the
spell has absorbed 12 points of heat or fire damage per level of the caster, at which time
the spell is negated.
If the spell is cast upon another creature, it gives invulnerability to normal fire, gives a
bonus of +4 to saving throw die rolls vs. fire attacks, and reduces damage sustained from
magical fires by 50%.
The caster's holy symbol is the material component.

 Pyrotechnics
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 160 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10 or 100 (TS) fire Saving Throw: Special
A pyrotechnics spell draws on an existing fire source to produce either of two effects,
at the option of the caster.
First, it can produce a flashing and fiery burst of glowing, colored aerial fireworks that
lasts one round. Creatures in, under, or within 120 feet of the area that have an
unobstructed line of sight to the effect are blinded for 1d4+1 rounds unless they roll
successful saving throws vs. spell. The fireworks fill a volume 10 times greater than the
original fire source.
Second, it can cause a thick, writhing stream of smoke to arise from the source and
form a choking cloud that lasts for one round per experience level of the caster. This
covers a roughly hemispherical volume from the ground or floor up (or conforming to the
shape of a confined area) that totally obscures vision beyond 2 feet. The smoke fills a
volume 100 times that of the fire source.
The spell uses one fire source within the area of effect, which is immediately
extinguished. If an extremely large fire is used as the source, it is only partially
extinguished by the casting. Magical fires are not extinguished, although a fire-based
creature (such as a fire elemental) used as a source suffers 1d4 points of damage, plus 1
point of damage per caster level. This spell does not function under water.

 Random Causality (Alteration) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 3 rounds+1 round/level
Area of Effect: One weapon
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell creates a rift in the nature of cause and effect. The spell is cast upon an 
opponent's weapon. When the weapon is used, it hits and causes damage normally, but 
the damage is not applied to the creature struck by the weapon. Instead, the person 
wielding the weapon or one of his companions suffers the damage. If the weapon misses 
its target on any round, no damage is caused in that round.
Using a die roll, the DM randomly determines the victim of the damage. The DM 
selects a die with a value nearest the number of eligible creatures (the wielder of the 
weapon and his companions). If the number of creatures does not equate to highest value 
of a die, the wielder of the enchanted weapon takes the extra chances to be hit. For 
example, if a goblin wields a sword affected by this spell, he and his six companions are 
eligible to receive the damage. The DM rolls 1d8. On a roll of 1-6, one of the goblin's 
companions suffers the damage; on a roll of 7 or 8, the goblin with the affected weapon 
suffers the damage.
The weapon is affected for 3 rounds+1 round/level of the spell caster. If the wielder 
of the weapon changes weapons while the spell is in effect, the discarded weapon 
remains enchanted.
The material component is a bronze die. 

 Remove Curse
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Upon casting this spell, the priest is usually able to remove a curse on an object, on a
person, or in the form of some undesired sending or evil presence. Note that the remove
curse spell does not remove the curse from a cursed shield, weapon, or suit of armor, for
example, although the spell typically enables the person afflicted with any such cursed
item to get rid of it. Certain special curses may not be countered by this spell, or may be
countered only by a caster of a certain level or more. A caster of 12th level or more can
cure lycanthropy with this spell by casting it on the animal form. The were-creature
receives a saving throw vs. spell and, if successful, the spell fails and the priest must gain
a level before attempting the remedy on this creature again.
The reverse of the spell is not permanent; the bestow curse spell lasts for one turn for
every experience level of the priest using the spell. The curse can have one of the
following effects (roll percentile dice): 50% of the time it reduces one ability of the
victim to 3 (the DM randomly determines which ability); 25% of the time it lowers the
victim's attack and saving throw rolls by -4; 25% of the time it makes the victim 50%
likely to drop whatever he is holding (or do nothing, in the case of creatures not using
tools)--roll each round.
It is possible for a priest to devise his own curse, and it should be similar in power to
those given here. Consult your DM. The subject of a bestow curse spell must be touched.
If the victim is touched, a saving throw is still applicable; if it is successful, the effect is
negated. The bestowed curse cannot be dispelled.

 Remove Paralysis
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1d4 creatures in 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
By the use of this spell, the priest can free one or more creatures from the effects of
any paralyzation or from related magic (such as a ghoul touch, or a hold or slow spell). If
the spell is cast on one creature, the paralyzation is negated. If cast on two creatures, each
receives another saving throw vs. the effect that afflicts it, with a +4 bonus. If cast on
three or four creatures, each receives another saving throw with a +2 bonus. There must
be no physical or magical barrier between the caster and the creatures to be affected, or
the spell fails and is wasted.

 Rigid Thinking (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
Rigid thinking can be cast only upon a creature with Intelligence of 3 or greater. The 
creature is allowed a saving throw to avoid the effects.
The creature affected by rigid thinking is in capable of performing any action other 
than the activity he is involved in when the spell takes effect. The creature's mind simply 
cannot decide on another course of action--it becomes frozen into a single thought and 
cannot change even if new circumstances would suggest otherwise. Thus, a warrior 
fighting a kobold will ignore the arrival of a beholder, and a thief picking a lock will pay 
no heed to the arrival of three guards.
The affected creature does not mechanically repeat the action; he is not an automaton. 
He will not continue to fire his bow at a dragon if he runs out of arrows, but will choose 
another means of attacking the dragon to the exclusion of all other activities.
A spellcaster in the process of casting a spell when rigid thinking takes effect will not 
attempt to repeat the spell (unless the spell has been memorized more than once). The 
spellcaster will, however, devote his attention to the target of that spell until his goal is 
met (e.g., if the caster were attacking a creature, he would continue to direct attacks at 
that creature; if the caster were trying to open a door, he would continue to work on the 
door until it opens). 
The spell expires when the creature accomplishes his goal (i.e., the kobold is killed or 
the lock is opened) or when the duration of the spell has ended. 

 Shape Wood (Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 9 cubic feet+1 cubic foot/level
Saving Throw: None
By means of shape wood, the caster can reform wood. For example, the character 
can cast it upon any appropriate-sized piece of wood to fashion a wooden weapon, make 
a rough door, or even create a crude figurine.
The spell also allows the caster to reshape an existing wooden door, perhaps to 
escape imprisonment. Again, the volume of the wooden object must be appropriate to the 
desired result and fit in the area of effect.
While a character might form a wooden coffer from a tree stump or a door from a 
wooden wall, the result does not bear high-quality detail. If a shaping has moving parts, 
there is a 30% chance they do not work.
The alteration endures permanently, at least until the wood rots or is physically 
destroyed. The caster blows the material component, a pinch of fine sawdust, over the 
wooden subject of the spell.

 Slow Rot (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 week/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell increases the amount of time that fruits, vegetables, and grains remain 
wholesome and ripe. The spell will not take effect upon meat of any kind.
The caster can affect as much as 100 cubic feet of plant material per level. Thus, even 
a low level priest could effectively keep a farmer's grain from rotting while in storage or 
keep the fruit on the trees in his orchard ripe until they are harvested. This spell does not 
prevent pests (such as rats) from eating the food.
The material component is a pinch of sugar. 

 Snare
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until triggered Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: 2-ft. diameter + 2 in./level Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to make a snare that is 90% undetectable without magical
aid. The snare can be made from any supple vine, a thong, or a rope. When the snare
spell is cast upon it, the cordlike object blends with its surroundings. One end of the snare
is tied in a loop that contracts around one or more of the limbs of any creature stepping
inside the circle (note that the head of a worm or snake could be thus ensnared).
If a strong and supple tree is nearby, the snare can be fastened to it. The magic of the
spell causes the tree to bend and then straighten when the loop is triggered, inflicting 1d6
points of damage to the creature trapped, and lifting it off the ground by the trapped
member(s) (or strangling it if the head/neck triggered the snare). If no such sapling or tree
is available, the cordlike object tightens upon the member(s), then wraps around the
entire creature, causing no damage, but tightly binding it. Under water, the cord coils
back upon its anchor point. The snare is magical, so for one hour it is breakable only by
cloud giant or greater Strength (23); each hour thereafter, the snare material loses magic
so as to become 1 point more breakable per hour--22 after two hours, 21 after three, 20
after four--until six full hours have elapsed. At that time, 18 Strength will break the
bonds. After 12 hours have elapsed, the materials of the snare lose all magical properties
and the loop opens, freeing anything it held. The snare can be cut with any magical
weapon, or with any edged weapon wielded with at least a +2 attack bonus (from
Strength, for example).
The caster must have a snake skin and a piece of sinew from a strong animal to weave
into the cordlike object from which he will make the snare. Only the caster's holy symbol
is otherwise needed.

 Speak With Dead
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 1 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
Upon casting a speak with dead spell, the priest is able to ask several questions of a
dead creature in a set period of time and receive answers according to the knowledge of
that creature. Of course, the priest must be able to converse in the language that the dead
creature once used. The length of time the creature has been dead is a factor, since only
higher level priests can converse with a long-dead creature. The number of questions that
can be answered and the length of time in which the questions can be asked depend on
the level of experience of the priest. Even if the casting is successful, such creatures are
as evasive as possible when questioned. The dead tend to give extremely brief and
limited answers, often cryptic, and to take questions literally. Furthermore, their
knowledge is often limited to what they knew in life.
A dead creature of different alignment or of higher level or Hit Dice than the caster's
level receives a saving throw vs. spell. A dead creature that successfully saves can refuse
to answer questions, ending the spell. At the DM's option, the casting of this spell on a
given creature might be restricted to once per week.
The priest needs a holy symbol and burning incense in order to cast this spell upon the
body, remains, or a portion thereof. The remains are not expended. This spell does not
function under water.

Caster's Level of Experience | Max. Length of Time Dead | Time Questioned | No. of Questions
       1-7                   |      1 week              | 1 round         |      2
       7-8                   |      1 month             | 3 rounds        |      3
       9-12                  |      1 year              | 1 turn          |      4
       13-15                 |     10 years             | 2 turns         |      5
       16-20                 |    100 years             | 3 turns         |      6
       21+                   |  1,000 years             | 1 hour          |      7

 Spike Growth
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3d4 turns + 1/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10-ft. sq./level Saving Throw: None
Wherever any type of plant growth of moderate size or density is found, this spell can
be used. The ground-covering vegetation or roots and rootlets in the area becomes very
hard and sharply pointed. In effect, the ground cover, while appearing to be unchanged,
acts as if the area were strewn with caltrops. In areas of bare ground or earthen pits, roots
and rootlets act in the same way. For each 10 feet of movement through the area, the
victim suffers 2d4 points of damage. He must also roll a saving throw vs. spell. If this
saving throw is failed, the victim's movement rate is reduced by 1/3 of its current total
(but a creature's movement rate can never be less than 1). This penalty lasts for 24 hours,
after which the character's normal movement rate is regained.
Without the use of a spell such as true seeing, similar magical aids, or some other
special means of detection (such as detect traps or detect snares and pits), an area
affected by spike growth is absolutely undetectable as such until a victim enters the area
and suffers damage. Even then, the creature cannot determine the extent of the perilous
area unless some means of magical detection is used.
The components for this spell are the priest's holy symbol and either seven sharp
thorns or seven small twigs, each sharpened to a point.

 Squeaking Floors (Evocation) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-foot square/level
Saving Throw: None
A surface affected by squeaking floors squeaks loudly when any creature larger than 
a normal rat (larger than one-half cubic foot or weighing more than three pounds) steps 
on it or touches it. The spell affects a square whose sides equal the caster's level times 10 
feet (a 9th-level priest could affect a square whose sides are 90 feet long).
The squeaks can be heard in a 100-foot radius, regardless of interposing barriers such 
as walls and doors. The squeaks occur regardless of the surface, whether wood, stone, 
dirt, or any other solid material. Listeners automatically know the direction of the sounds.
Characters who successfully move silently reduce the radius of the noise to 50 feet. 
Those able to fly or otherwise avoid direct contact with the affected surface will not 
activate the squeaking floor.
The material component is a rusty iron hinge that squeaks when moved. 

 Starshine
(Evocation, Illusion/Phantasm)
Sphere: Sun
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10-ft. sq./level Saving Throw: None
A starshine spell enables the caster to softly illuminate an area as if it were exposed to
a clear night sky filled with stars. Regardless of the height of the open area in which the
spell is cast, the area immediately beneath it is lit by starshine. Vision ranges are the same
as those for a bright moonlit night--movement noted out to 100 yards; stationary
creatures seen up to 50 yards; general identifications made at 30 yards; and recognition at
10 yards. The spell creates shadows and has no effect on infravision. The area of effect
actually appears to be a night sky, but disbelief of the illusion merely enables the
disbeliever to note that the "stars" are actually evoked lights. This spell does not function
under water.
The material components are several stalks from an amaryllis plant (especially
Hypoxis) and several holly berries.

 Stone Shape
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 9 cu. ft. + 1 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster can form an existing piece of stone into any shape
that suits his purposes. For example, he can make a stone weapon, a special trapdoor, or a
crude idol. By the same token, it enables the spellcaster to shape a stone door, perhaps so
as to escape imprisonment, providing the volume of stone involved is within the limits of
the area of effect. While stone coffers can be thus formed, stone doors made, etc., the
fineness of detail is not great. If the shaping has moving parts, there is a 30% chance they
do not work.
The material component of this spell is soft clay that must be worked into roughly the
desired shape of the stone object, and then touched to the stone when the spell is uttered.


 Strength of One (Alteration) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 2d6 rounds
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature+1creature/2 levels
Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell on a group of lawful creatures, the priest imbues each creature 
with a Strength bonus equal to that of the strongest creature in the group. To be affected 
by the spell, all creatures must touch the hand of the priest at the time of casting. Only 
human, demihuman, and humanoid creatures of man-size or smaller may be affected. The 
characters can be a mixed group of Lawful Neutral, Lawful Good, or Lawful Evil 
alignments. The spell will not take effect if any creature of Neutral or Chaotic alignment 
is included in the group.
Prior to casting, one creature is designated the keystone. There may never be more 
than one keystone in a group, even if another creature has equal strength.
Upon completion of the spell, all affected characters gain a bonus to damage equal to 
the keystone's bonus to damage from Strength. Any magical bonuses belonging to the 
keystone are not added; only the keystone's natural strength is conferred on the group.
This bonus supersedes any bonus a character might normally receive. Thus, a warrior 
with 16 Strength (a +1 bonus to damage) who benefits from this spell with a keystone 
who has Strength 18/07 (a damage bonus of +3) gains a total bonus of +3 to damage (not 
+4 to damage). The keystone receives no bonus.
Affected creatures gain no improvements to THAC0, bend bars/lift gates, or other 
functions of Strength.
The spell ends if the keystone is killed before the duration expires. The bonus and 
duration are not affected if a member of the group is killed within the duration of the 
spell. 

 Summon Insects
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The summon insects spell attracts a cloud or swarm of normal insects to attack the foes
of the caster. Flying insects appear 70% of the time, while crawling insects appear 30%
of the time. The exact insects called are bees, biting flies, hornets, or wasps, if flying
insects are indicated; biting ants or pinching beetles, if crawling insects are indicated. A
cloud of the flying type, or a swarm of the crawling sort, appears after the spell is cast.
This gathers at a point chosen by the caster, within the spell's range, and attacks any
single creature the caster points to.
The attacked creature sustains 2 points of damage if it does nothing but attempt to flee
or fend off the insects during the time it is attacked; it suffers 4 points of damage per
round otherwise. If the insects are ignored, the victim fights with a -2 penalty to his attack
roll and a +2 penalty to his Armor Class. If he attempts to cast a spell, an initiative roll
should be made for the insects to see if their damage occurs before the spell is cast. If it
does, the victim's concentration is ruined and the spell is lost.
The insects disperse and the spell ends if the victim enters thick smoke or hot flames.
Besides being driven off by smoke or hot flames, the swarm might possibly be outrun, or
evaded by plunging into a sufficient body of water. If evaded, the summoned insects can
be sent against another opponent, but there will be at least a 1 round delay while they
leave the former opponent and attack the new victim. Crawling insects can travel only
about 10 feet per round (maximum speed over smooth ground) and flying insects travel
60 feet per round. The caster must concentrate to maintain the swarm; it dissipates if he
moves or is disturbed.
It is possible, in underground situations, that the caster might summon 1d4 giant ants
by means of the spell, but the possibility is only 30% unless giant ants are nearby. This
spell does not function under water.
The materials needed for this spell are the caster's holy symbol, a flower petal, and a
bit of mud or wet clay.

 Telepathy (Divination, Alteration) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn+2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell establishes direct, two-way mental contact between the priest and a single 
subject. The subject must have Intelligence of at least 5 for the spell to take effect. While 
the spell is in effect, the two participants can communicate silently and rapidly, 
regardless of whether they share a common language.
Telepathy does not give either participant access to the other's thoughts, memories, or 
emotions. Participants can only "hear" the thoughts that the other participant actively 
"sends."
Mind-to-mind communication is approximately four times faster than verbal 
communication. The level of complexity that can be communicated is only that which 
can be expressed through language. Gestures, expressions, and body language cannot be 
conveyed.
A priest can establish separate "telepathic channels" to multiple individuals. Each 
linkage is established through a separate casting of the spell. There is no network 
between the channels. For example, Balfas the priest establishes telepathy with Alra the 
warrior and Zymor the thief by casting this spell twice. Balfas can communicate a single 
thought to both Alra and Zymor, but Alra and Zymor cannot communicate with each 
other. Balfas, however, can "target" a thought so that only one of the two participants 
receives it.
If the priest casts this spell on an unwilling subject (for example, if the priest wants to 
silently threaten or taunt the subject), the subject receives a saving throw vs. spell to 
resist the effect. Willing subjects need not make a saving throw.
Lead sheeting of more than ½ " thickness will totally block telepathy. 

 Telethaumaturgy (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2 rounds
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell requires the priest to perform a numerological analysis of a subject's correct 
name. The result is that the priest may cast another spell that affects the subject individual 
at a range much greater than normal. In other words, by gaining deep knowledge of the 
individual, the priest creates a "channel" to that individual that makes a subsequent spell 
easier to cast on that subject.
Only certain spells can benefit from telethaumaturgy: 

bless*
command
charm person or mammal
detect charm
hold person
know alignment
remove curse* 
probability control
quest
confusion (one creature only) 
exaction

For spells marked with an asterisk (*), telethaumaturgy also increases the range of 
the reversed spell. Unless indicated, telethaumaturgy does not increase the range of the 
reversed spells.
The increase in range depends on the level of the priest casting telethaumaturgy: 

 Level Range | Multiplier 
 1-6         | x2  
 7-11        | x3 
 12-16       | x4 
 17+         | x5 

Thus, a 12th-level priest who has cast telethaumaturgy on an individual could 
subsequently cast charm person on that individual at a range of 320 yards, rather than the 
normal range of 80 yards.
A spell to be enhanced by telethaumaturgy must be cast on the round immediately 
following the completion of telethaumaturgy. Spells that normally affect more than one 
individual (such as confusion ) will affect only the selected subject when cast following 
telethaumaturgy.
When telethaumaturgy is cast by a priest of 11th level or higher, it has an additional 
effect. If the target is within the normal range of the subsequent spell (e.g., 80 yards for 
charm person), the subject's saving throw suffers a penalty of -2.
Like the personal reading spell, telethaumaturgy functions only if the priest knows 
the correct name of his subject. If the priest casts the spell using an alias, he will not 
know that telethaumaturgy has not taken effect until the subsequent spell fails. The priest 
does not automatically know why the subsequent spell failed (the subject might simply 
have made a successful saving throw).
The material component is a small book of numerological formulae and notes. This 
book is different from the book used in personal reading. The book is not consumed in 
the casting. 

 Tree
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 6 turns + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster is able to assume the form of a small living tree or
shrub or that of a large dead tree trunk with only a few limbs. Although the closest
inspection cannot reveal that this plant is actually a person, and for all normal tests he is,
in fact, a tree or shrub, the caster is able to observe all that goes on around him just as if
he were in normal form. The Armor Class and hit points of the plant are those of the
caster. The caster can remove the spell at any time, instantly changing from plant to his
normal form and having full capability for any action normally possible (including
spellcasting). Note that all clothing and gear worn or carried change with the caster.
The material components of this spell are the priest's holy symbol and a twig from a
tree.

 Thief's Lament (Alteration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 5-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
A thief entering an area enchanted with thief's lament suffers a great reduction in his 
thieving skills. The thief is allowed a saving throw to resist the effects of the spell; failure 
indicates that he suffers the full effects of the lament. All attempts to pick pockets, open 
locks, find/remove traps, move silently, detect noise, climb walls, and hide in shadows 
are reduced by 25% (although a skill cannot be reduced below 5%, presuming the 
character has at least a score of 5% in any skill).
The spell affects a cube whose sides equal the caster's level times five feet (a 10thlevel caster could affect a cube whose sides equal 50 feet).
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a silver key. 

 Water Breathing
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Water, Air)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The recipient of a water breathing spell is able to breathe under water freely for the
duration of the spell--i.e., one hour for each experience level of the caster. The priest can
divide the base duration between multiple characters. Thus, an 8th-level priest can confer
this ability to two characters for four hours, four for two hours, eight for one hour, etc., to
a minimum of one half-hour per character.
The reverse, air breathing, enables water-breathing creatures to survive comfortably in
the atmosphere for an equal duration. Note that neither version prevents the recipient
creature from breathing in its natural element.

 Water Walk
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster is able to empower one or more creatures to tread
upon any liquid as if it were firm ground; this includes mud, quicksand, oil, running
water, and snow. The recipient's feet do not touch the surface of the liquid, but oval
depressions of his appropriate foot size and 2 inches deep are left in the mud or snow.
The recipient's rate of movement remains normal. If cast under water, the recipient is
borne toward the surface.
For every level of the caster above the minimum required to cast the spell (5th level),
he can affect another creature.
The material components for this spell are a piece of cork and the priest's holy symbol.

 Unearthly Choir (Invocation) 
Sphere: Combat
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: ½
This cooperative spell requires at least three priests casting the spell simultaneously. 
At the time of casting, the priests must be within 10 feet of each other. Upon completion 
of the spell, the priests sing a single, dissonant chord. The result of the spell depends on 
the number of voices in the choir. 
Trio. In this form, the spell projects a cone of sonic force 120 feet long and 40 feet 
wide at the base. All creatures within the area of effect must save vs. spells or suffer 2d4 
points of damage. Those who successfully save suffer only 1d4 points. Undead suffer a -2 
penalty to their saving throws. 
Quartet. With four voices, the spell has the same area of effect as described above. 
However, all those who fail their saving throw suffer 2d4 points of damage and are 
deafened for one round. Those who successfully save suffer half damage and are not 
deafened. Undead creatures are not allowed a saving throw. 
Quintet. Five singers produce a chord of major power. All within the area of effect 
suffer 3d4 points of damage (saving throw for half damage). Undead are not allowed a 
saving throw. All creatures are deafened for one round. Furthermore, pottery, glassware, 
crystal, and similar breakable goods must save vs. fall or be shattered. 
Ensemble. An ensemble of singers consists of six to ten priests. In this case, the area 
of effect increases to a cone 180 feet long and 60 feet wide at the base. All creatures 
within this area suffer 1d4 points of damage per priest and are deafened for 1d4 rounds. 
A successful saving throw vs. spell reduces the damage and duration of deafness by half. 
Undead creatures of 3 hit dice or less are immediately destroyed. All other undead suffer 
normal damage, but are not allowed a saving throw. Glass, pottery, crystal, bone, and all 
wooden items that are the strength of a door or less (chests, tables, chairs, etc.) must save 
vs. crushing blow or be shattered. 
Choir. The most powerful group, a choir, requires eleven or more priests. In this 
case, the area of effect expands to a cone 300 feet long and 100 feet wide at the base. All 
within the area of effect suffer 1d6 points of damage per priest to a maximum of 20d6. A 
saving throw vs. spells reduces the damage to half. Those who fail to save are deafened 
for 1d10 rounds; those who succeed are deafened only 1d6 rounds. Undead creatures of 5 
hit dice or less are immediately destroyed. Undead with more hit dice are not allowed a 
saving throw. Structures within the area of effect are damaged as if they suffered a direct 
hit from a catapult (one hit per four priests in the choir). Doors, chests, and other 
breakable items are instantly shattered. 

 Zone of Sweet Air (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: None
Zone of sweet air creates an invisible barrier around the area of effect that repels all 
noxious elements from poisonous vapors, including those created magically (such as a 
stinking cloud). The spell offers no protection against poisonous vapors created by a 
dragon's breath weapon (such as the chlorine gas of a green dragon). Noxious gases 
already within the area of effect when the spell is cast are not affected. Fresh air passes 
into the area normally.
If a poisonous vapor is expelled within the area of effect (for example, a stinking 
cloud is cast), the spell takes effect normally but dissipates in half the time normally 
required.
The spell affects a cube whose sides equal the caster's level times 10 feet (for 
instance, a 10th-level caster could affect a cube whose sides are 100 feet long).
The material components are the priest's holy symbol, a silk handkerchief, and a 
strand of spider web.