Spells work file Tier 0

 Name: 
School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, Chaos, and Shadow)
Tier:  
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters)
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time:  (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier:  
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 

Spells being worked on Currently are Tier 9

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 9 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Foresight
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell grants the caster a powerful sixth sense in relation to himself or another.
Although cast upon himself, the wizard can specify that he or another is the beneficiary
of the spell. Once the spell is cast, the wizard receives instantaneous warnings of
impending danger or harm to the object of the spell. Thus, if he were the object of the
spell, the wizard would be warned in advance if a thief were about to attempt to backstab
him, or if a creature were about to leap out from an unexpected direction, or if an attacker
were specifically targeting him with a spell or missile weapon. When the warnings are
about him personally, the wizard cannot be surprised and always knows the direction
from which any attack on him is made. In addition, the spell gives the wizard a general
idea of what action he might take to best protect himself--duck, jump right, close his
eyes, etc.--and gives him a defensive bonus of 2 to his Armor Class.
When another person is the object of the spell, the wizard receives warnings about that
person. He must still communicate this to the other person to negate any surprise.
Shouting a warning, yanking the person back, and even telepathically communicating
through a crystal ball can all be accomplished before the trap is sprung, if the wizard
does not hesitate. However, the object of the spell does not gain the defensive bonus to
his Armor Class.
The material component for this spell is a hummingbird's feather.

 Gate
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The casting of a gate spell has two effects. First, it causes an interdimensional
connection between the plane of existence the wizard is on and the plane on which dwells
a specific being of great power; thus, the being is able to merely step through the gate or
portal from its plane to that of the caster. Second, the utterance of the spell attracts the
attention of the sought-after dweller on the other plane. When casting the spell, the
wizard must name the entity he desires to use the gate and come to the wizard's aid.
There is a 100% certainty that something steps through the gate. Unless the DM has some
facts prepared regarding the minions serving the being called forth by the gate spell, the
being itself comes.
If the matter is trifling, the being might leave, inflict an appropriate penalty on the
wizard, or attack the wizard. If the matter is of middling importance, the being can take
some positive action to set matters right, then demand appropriate repayment. If the
matter is urgent, the being can act accordingly and ask whatever is its wont thereafter, if
appropriate. The actions of the being that comes through depend on many factors,
including the alignments of the wizard and the deity, the nature of his companions, and
who or what opposes or threatens the wizard. Such beings generally avoid direct conflict
with their equals or betters. The being gated in will either return immediately (very
unlikely) or remain to take action. Casting this spell ages the wizard five years.

 Glorious Transmutation (Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell turns iron into silver or lead into gold at the caster's option. The prime 
ingredient for this spell is a magical item called the philosopher's stone, which must be 
touched by the wizard and alchemically combined with the metal during casting. The 
formula for mixing the stone and the metal must be known by the caster; this information 
is not provided by this spell and the spell is useless without it. (The exact ingredients and 
formula are decided by the Dungeon Master and must be discovered by the wizard in the 
course of adventuring.)
Philosopher's stones vary in quality so much that each is capable of transmuting 
either 1d10x50 pounds of iron into an equal quantity of silver or 1d10x10 pounds of lead 
into the same amount of gold. It is not possible to know how much metal can be 
transmuted until the process is complete. If the caster has more iron or lead prepared than 
the spell is capable of changing, any excess is unchanged.
The entire transmutation must be made at one time. Only one stone may be used per 
casting of the spell. The entire philosopher's stone is consumed in the process. 

 Imprisonment
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When an imprisonment spell is cast and the victim is touched, the recipient is
entombed in a state of suspended animation (see the 9th-level wizard spell temporal
stasis) in a small sphere far beneath the surface of the earth. The victim remains there
unless a reverse of the spell, with the creature's name and background, is cast. Magical
search by a crystal ball, a locate object spell, or similar means will not reveal the fact that
a creature is imprisoned. The imprisonment spell functions only if the subject creature's
name and background are known.
The reverse spell, freedom, cast upon the spot at which a creature was entombed and
sunk into the earth, causes it to reappear at that spot. If the caster does not perfectly
intone the name and background of the creature to be freed, there is a 10% chance that 1
to 100 creatures will be freed from imprisonment at the same time.
Note: The exact details of any creatures freed are up to the DM. A random method of
determining this is to roll percentile dice twice (once for imprisoned creature density and
once for a base number of creatures at maximum density). The rolls are multiplied and
rounded to the nearest whole number. Each released creature has a 10% chance to be in
the area of the spellcaster. If monsters are being generated randomly, roll 1d20 for level,
with rolls of 9+ considered 9, and the exact monsters determined by the random
encounter tables.
For example, if the initial rolls were 22 and 60, the number of monsters released is .22
x .60 = .1320 = 13 monsters. Since only 10% of these will be in the immediate vicinity of
the caster, the wizard may encounter only one or two of them.

 Meteor Swarm
(Evocation)
Range: 40 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: _
A meteor swarm is a very powerful and spectacular spell which is similar to the
fireball spell in many aspects. When it is cast, either four spheres of 2-foot diameter or
eight spheres of 1-foot diameter spring from the outstretched hand of the wizard and
streak in a straight line to the distance demanded by the spellcaster, up to the maximum
range. Any creature in the straight-line path of these missiles receives the full effect,
without benefit of a saving throw. The meteor missiles leave a fiery trail of sparks, and
each bursts as a fireball.
The large spheres (2-foot diameter) inflict 10d4 points of damage, bursting in a
diamond or box pattern. Each has a 30-foot diameter area of effect, and each sphere is 20
feet apart along the sides of the pattern, creating overlapping areas of effect and exposing
the center to all four blasts.
The smaller spheres (1-foot diameter) each have a 15-foot diameter area of effect, and
each inflicts 5d4 points of damage. They burst in a pattern of a box within a diamond or
vice versa, with each of the outer sides 20 feet long. Note that the center has four areas of
overlapping effect, and there are numerous peripheral areas that have two overlapping
areas of effect. A saving throw for each area of effect will indicate whether full damage
or half damage is sustained by creatures within each area, except as already stated with
regard to the missiles impacting.

 Monster Summoning VII
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 8 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 90-yd. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell is much like the 3rd-level spell monster summoning I, except that this spell
summons one or two 7th-level monsters that appear one round after the spell is cast, or
one 8th-level monster that appears two rounds after the spell is cast.

 Mordenkainen's Disjunction
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is cast, all magic and magical items within the radius of the spell,
except those on the person of or being touched by the spellcaster, are disjoined. That is,
spells being cast are separated into their individual components (usually spoiling the
effect as a dispel magic spell does), and permanent and enchanted magical items must
successfully save (vs. spell if actually cast on a creature, or vs. a dispel magic spell
otherwise) or be turned into normal items. Even artifacts and relics are subject to
Mordenkainen's disjunction, though there is only a 1% chance per caster experience level
of actually affecting such powerful items. Thus, all potions, scrolls, rings, rods,
miscellaneous magical items, artifacts and relics, arms and armor, swords, and
miscellaneous weapons within 30 feet of the spellcaster can possibly lose all their
magical properties when the Mordenkainen's disjunction spell is cast. The caster also has
a 1% chance per level of destroying an antimagic shell. If the shell survives the
disjunction, no items within it are disjoined.
Note: Destroying artifacts is a dangerous business, and 95% likely to attract the
attention of some powerful being who has an interest or connection with the device.
Additionally, if an artifact is destroyed, the casting wizard must roll a successful saving
throw vs. spell with a -4 penalty or permanently lose all spellcasting abilities.

 Power Word, Kill
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 5 yds./2 levels Components: V
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When a power word, kill spell is uttered, one or more creatures of any type within the
spell range and area of effect are slain. The power word kills either one creature with up
to 60 hit points, or multiple creatures with 10 or fewer hit points each, to a maximum of
120 hit points total. The option to attack a single creature or multiple creatures must be
stated along with the spell range and center of the area of effect. The current hit points of
the creatures are used.

 Prismatic Sphere
(Abjuration, Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell enables the wizard to conjure up an immobile, opaque globe of shimmering,
multicolored light to surround him, giving protection from all forms of attack. The sphere
flashes in all colors of the visible spectrum, seven of which have distinct powers and
purposes. Any creature with fewer than 8 Hit Dice is blinded for 2d4 turns by the colors
of the sphere. Only the spellcaster can pass in and out of the prismatic sphere without
harm, though he can cast it over others to protect them. The sphere can be destroyed,
color by color, in consecutive order, by various magical effects; however, the first must
be brought down before the second can be affected, and so on. Any creature passing
through the barrier receives the effect of every color still remaining. The following table
shows the colors and effects of the prismatic sphere, as well as what will negate each
globe.
Note that typically the upper hemisphere of the globe is visible, as the spellcaster is at
the center of the sphere, so the lower half is usually hidden by the floor surface he is
standing on.
Furthermore, a rod of cancellation or a Mordenkainen's disjunction spell will destroy a
prismatic sphere (but an antimagic shell will fail to penetrate it). Otherwise, anything
short of an artifact or relic entering the sphere is destroyed, and any creature is subject to
the effects of every color still active--i.e., 70-140 points of damage plus death,
petrification, insanity, and instantaneous transportation to another plane.

|                                          Prismatic Sphere Effects                                                        |
|_______________________________________________________________________________________________________|__________________|
| Color  | Order |                    Effect of Color                                                   | Spell Negated By |
|--------|-------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
|  Red   | 1st   | Stops nonmagical missiles--inflicts 20 points of damage, save for half               | cone of cold     |
| Orange | 2nd   | Stops magical missiles--inflicts 40 points of damage, save for half                  | gust of wind     |
| Yellow | 3rd   | Stops poisons, gases, and petrification--inflicts 80 points of damage, save for half | disintegrate     |
| Green  | 4th   | Stops breath weapons--save vs. poison or die; survivors suffer 20 points of damage   | passwall         |
| Blue   | 5th   | Stops location/detection and mental attacks--save vs. petrification or turn to stone | magic missile    |
| Indigo | 6th   | Stops magical spells--save vs. wand or go insane                                     | continual light  |
| Violet | 7th   | Force field protection--save vs. spell or be sent to another plane                   | dispel magic     |

 Programmed Amnesia
(Enchantment/Charm, Mentalism)
Range: 20 yards Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +8 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This particular spell was the last and most powerful spell developed by the
archmentalist Rheizom. It allows the wizard to selectively destroy, alter, or implant 
memories in the subject creature as he sees fit. He can completely reprogram a character, 
inventing a new persona, a new alignment, and assigning a new class as he sees fit. Only 
sentient beings can be affected; if the subject is not human, humanoid, or demihuman, he 
gains a +4 bonus on his saving throw.
As described above, programmed amnesia can be used to achieve several 
different effects. The wizard may choose to make use of any or all of the effects listed 
below:
A. Memory erasure. Any or all memories possessed by the subject can be erased 
at the caster’s will, including knowledge of specific events, people, or places.
B. Memory implant. The caster can create false memories in the subject’s mind 
as he sees fit. Imaginary friends, events that didn’t really take place, betrayals by people 
the subject regards as his friends, or the friendship of an enemy could all be implanted in 
the subject’s mind.
C. Skill erasure. The subject can be made to forget any or all class-based skills or 
proficiencies, including all or part of his THAC0 (it resets to 20), thief abilities, 
spellcasting, turning undead, or any other ability that stems from knowledge. About the 
only characteristics that can’t be affected by this usage of Rheizom’s programmed 
amnesia are hit points, saving throws, and ability scores. A character’s native language 
cannot be erased, either.
D. Persona erasure. Combining the effects of a skill erasure and a memory 
erasure, this leaves the subject as a clean slate. Only his ability scores, hit points, saving 
throws, and native language remain. The character may assume any class or alignment 
available, beginning as a 1st-level character just as if he had decided to dual-class. (Even 
demihumans can dual-class in this fashion, since they forget all skills of their previous 
class.)
E. Persona implant. By erasing the existing personality and implanting a false 
set of memories, the wizard can build a new persona for the mind-wiped character. In 
effect, he can decide what class, alignment, and personality the subject will assume after 
his persona erasure. If the new persona is an adventurer, the character dual-classes, as 
described above.
F. Programmed erasure. The subject can be programmed to suffer a memory, 
skill, or persona erasure when a certain event takes place. For example, the wizard could 
set the subject to be wiped clean as a slate when the subject receives a coded message or 
arrives at some destination. Optionally, the wizard can decide to have an erasure partially 
or totally lifted when the programmed condition comes to pass.
The casting time of this spell varies according to what effects the wizard wishes to 
impose on the subject. To cast just one of the listed effects, the wizard must spend two 
days secluded away from any distractions—a personal laboratory is a good example of a 
secluded place. In between the intense eight-hour casting sessions, the wizard can sleep 
and eat in the area he chose to seclude himself in. If the wizard breaks his seclusion for 
any reason, the spell is lost. Also, for every effect over the first, another day (with its 
eight-hour intense casting period) must be spent in seclusion.
The wizard must be able to see the spell’s subject. At the end of each day of 
casting, the subject makes a saving throw vs. spell to negate the effect.
Programmed amnesia is normally permanent, unless the wizard cares to specify a 
set of conditions or parameters that will end the effect (see F, above). Its effects can only 
be undone by a restoration or wish spell, or by successful use of the psionic science 
psychic surgery. A character who picks up new skills or class abilities while amnesiac 
must make a saving throw vs. spell when his own real memories return; if he fails, the 
skills he learned as an amnesiac are gone forever, replaced by his former abilities, but if 
he succeeds he retains any new skills, and may even choose to continue in his new class 
as a dual-classed character. Dungeon Masters should keep in mind that an amnesiac 
character should still meet the new class’s full prerequisites before he can become that 
class.
Obviously, this is a very powerful spell, and the DM should very carefully 
examine a PC’s use of this magic. Dungeon Masters, take note—there are dozens of 
excellent plot vehicles hiding here if an NPC wizard uses this on a player character! Also, 
be aware that destroying a creature’s personality and replacing it with one more amenable 
to the wizard’s designs is never a good act.

 Shape Change
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
With this spell, a wizard is able to assume the form of any living thing or creature
below demigod status (greater or lesser deity, singular dragon type, or the like). The
spellcaster becomes the creature he wishes, and has all of its abilities save those
dependent upon Intelligence, innate magical abilities, and magic resistance, for the mind
of the creature is that of the spellcaster. Thus, he can change into a griffon and fly away,
then to an efreet and fly through a roaring flame, then to a titan to lift up a wagon, etc.
These creatures have whatever hit points the wizard had at the time of the shape change.
Each alteration in form requires only a second, and no system shock is incurred.
For example, a wizard is in combat and assumes the form of a will o' wisp. When this
form is no longer useful, the wizard changes into a stone golem and walks away. When
pursued, the golem-shape is changed to that of a flea, which hides on a horse until it can
hop off and become a bush. If detected as the latter, the wizard can become a dragon, an
ant, or just about anything he is familiar with.
A wizard adopting another form also adopts its vulnerabilities. For example, a wizard
who becomes a spectre is powerless in daylight, and is subject to being turned,
controlled, or destroyed by opposing clerics. Unlike similar spells, a wizard who is killed
in another form does not revert to his original shape, which may disallow certain types of
revivification.
The material component is a jade circlet worth no less than 5,000 gp, which shatters at
the end of the spell's duration. In the meantime, the circlet is left in the wake of the shape
change, and premature shattering ends the spell immediately.

 Sphere of Ultimate Destruction
(Conjuration/Summoning, Dimension)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: Creates a sphere Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
This awful spell brings into existence a short-lived sphere of annihilation (as 
described in Appendix 3 of the DMG). The sphere is a black ball of nothingness about 2 
feet in diameter that instantly and utterly destroys any matter that comes into contact with 
it. The sphere appears anywhere in the spell’s range and moves up to 15 feet per round as 
the wizard directs. If the wizard attempts to bring the sphere into contact with a living 
creature, the potential victim gains a saving throw vs. breath weapon to dodge aside, but a 
victim who is unaware of the sphere’s appearance or unable to move is destroyed without 
a saving throw.
Once conjured, the sphere of ultimate destruction may not move exactly as the caster wishes.
 The wizard has a 75% chance to control it, plus 1% per point of 
Intelligence over 12 and 3% for each point over 15. In other words, a wizard with an 
Intelligence of 18 would gain a +12% bonus to his chance to control the sphere. If the 
wizard fails to control the sphere in any given round, it automatically moves directly 
towards him at its maximum speed of 15 feet per round. Unlike the magical item, another 
wizard may not contest the caster’s control of a sphere of ultimate destruction unless the 
second wizard possesses a talisman of the sphere. (See the DMG.)
Should a gate spell be cast upon the sphere, there is a 50% chance that the sphere 
is destroyed, a 35% chance that nothing happens, and a 15% chance that a gap is torn in 
the spatial fabric, catapulting everything in a 180-foot radius to another plane of 
existence. If the sphere is touched by a rod of cancellation, a tremendous explosion 
inflicts 3d4 x 10 points of damage to everything within 60 feet as the two forces negate 
each other. No other spell or magical item has any effect on a sphere of ultimate 
destruction.
There is a 5% chance that any particular manifestation of this spell does not cause 
a victim’s utter destruction but instead transports him to a random plane of existence. The 
conjuring wizard has no way of knowing whether he has destroyed his enemy or merely 
blasted him into some remote dimension. The material component of this spell is a dark 
crystal ball that has been on the Ethereal Plane and that can be comfortably held in two 
hands.
As noted in the previous chapter, several new spell characteristics appear in the 
spell descriptions of this book. These include casting subtlety, sensory signature, critical 
strikes, and knockdown. Refer to page 136 for more information about these new 
characteristics.

 Stabilize* (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d4+1 turns
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 30-foot-radius circle
Saving Throw: None
This spell requires immense magical effort to cast, relegating it to the highest spell 
level. Stabilize negates the effects of wild magic regions, allowing the caster and all 
creatures in a 30-foot radius to cast spells and use magical items normally. The spell is 
centered on the caster and follows his movements.
The caster's own spells never cause wild surges when cast within the duration of a 
stabilize spell, nor do the effects of wild surges extend into the protected area. 
Furthermore, the wild mage's spells function at his true level; Table 2 is not used to 
determine level variation. The spell affects wildstrike, wildzone, and wildwind. 

 Succor
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 to 4 days
Area of Effect: 1 individual Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell, the wizard creates a powerful magic in some specially prepared
object--a statuette, a jeweled rod, a gem, etc. This object radiates magic, for it contains
the power to instantaneously transport its possessor to the abode of the wizard who
created it. Once the item is enchanted, the wizard must give it willingly to an individual,
at the same time informing him of a command word to be spoken when the item is to be
used. To make use of the item, the recipient must speak the command word at the same
time that he rends or breaks the item. When this is done, the individual and all that he is
wearing and carrying are instantly transported to the abode of the wizard. No other
creatures can be affected.
The reversed application of the spell transports the wizard to the immediate vicinity of
the possessor of the enchanted item, when it is broken and the command word spoken.
The wizard will have a general idea of the location and situation of the item possessor,
but has no choice whether or not to go (making this a rare casting indeed!).
The material components used include gemstones totaling not less than 5,000 gp value
(whether they are faceted gems or not is immaterial). The components can be enchanted
only once per month (usually on a night of a clear, full moon). At that time, the object is
set for the type of succor and its final destination (either the location of the spellcasting or
an area well known to the wizard).

 Temporal Stasis
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
Upon casting this spell, the wizard places the recipient creature into a state of
suspended animation. This cessation of time means that the creature does not grow older.
Its body functions virtually cease. This state persists until the magic is removed by a
dispel magic spell or the reverse of the spell (temporal reinstatement) is uttered. Note that
the reverse requires only a single word and no somatic or material components.
The material component of a temporal stasis spell is a powder composed of diamond,
emerald, ruby, and sapphire dust, with each crushed stone worth at least 100 gp.

 Time Stop
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 15-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
Upon casting a time stop spell, the wizard causes the flow of time to stop for one round
in the area of effect. Outside this area the sphere simply seems to shimmer for an instant.
Inside the sphere, the caster is free to act for 1d3 rounds of apparent time. The wizard can
move and act freely within the area where time is stopped, but all other creatures, except
for those of demigod and greater status or unique creatures, are frozen in their actions, for
they are literally between ticks of the time clock. (The spell duration is subjective to the
caster.) Nothing can enter the area of effect without being stopped in time also. If the
wizard leaves the area, the spell is immediately negated. When the spell duration ceases,
the wizard is again operating in normal time.
Note: It is recommended that the DM use a stopwatch or silently count to time this
spell. If the caster is unable to complete the intended action before the spell duration
expires, he will probably be caught in an embarrassing situation. The use of a teleport
spell before the expiration of the time stop spell is permissible.

 Wail of the Banshee (Necromancy) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 30-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: Neg.
At the culmination of this dreadful spell, the wizard screams like a banshee (a 
groaning spirit). For each level of the caster, one listener within 30 feet hears the wail. 
Those who fail a saving throw vs. death magic die instantly.
The wizard cannot be the victim of his own spell, nor can he choose who will be 
affected. If there are more potential victims than the level of the caster, the DM must 
randomly determine which creatures are affected. Creatures who cannot hear (due to ear 
plugs, deafness, etc.) can be targets, but cannot be affected and are considered to 
automatically make their saving throws.
The material component is a lock of hair from an evil female elf. 

 Weird
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration Casting Time: 9
Area of Effect: 20-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell confronts those affected by it with phantasmal images of their most feared
enemies, forcing an imaginary combat that seems real, but actually occurs in the blink of
an eye. When this spell is cast, the wizard must be able to converse with the victims to
bring the spell into being. During the casting, the wizard must call out to the creatures to
be affected, informing one or all that their final fate, indeed their doom, is now upon
them.
The force of the magic is such that even if the creatures make their saving throws vs.
spell, fear will paralyze them for a full round, and they will lose 1d4 Strength points from
this fear (the lost Strength will return in one turn). Failure to save vs. spell causes the
creature or creatures to face their nemeses, the opponents most feared and inimical to
them. Actual combat must then take place, for no magical means of escape is possible.
The foe fought is real for all intents and purposes; affected creatures that lose will die. If
a creature's phantasmal nemesis from the weird spell is slain, the creature emerges with
no damage, no loss of items seemingly used in the combat, and no loss of spells likewise
seemingly expended. The creature also gains any experience for defeating the weird, if
applicable.
Although each round of combat seems normal, it takes only one-tenth of a round.
During the course of the spell, the caster must concentrate fully upon maintaining it. If
the combat goes beyond 10 rounds, those who saved against the spell can take action. If
the caster is disturbed, the weird spell ends immediately. Creatures attacked while
paralyzed with fear are free of the paralysis immediately.

 Wildfire* (Invocation/Evocation) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Variable
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Variable
Saving Throw: Variable
By means of this spell, the wild mage is able to channel raw magical energy through 
himself, shaping it into any form or effect he desires. The energy is similar in many ways 
to a wish spell, but has unique differences.
Wildfire allows the caster to create the effect of any wizard spell of 8th level or lower. 
He need only have general knowledge of the spell and its effects; the spell does not need 
to be in his own spellbooks.
Any normal saving throws vs. the spell effects are made at a -2 penalty.
Wildfire can also be used in the creation of magical items. The energy created by the 
spell may be used to generate effects that are not created by known spells.
Wildfire can also be used to create items out of nothing. The magical energy can be 
shaped and hardened to form solid objects. These objects have a greenish, glowing tinge 
and radiate magic. These objects are stronger than steel yet possess almost no weight. 
They are immune to fire, cold, electricity, and all forms of magical attack except dispel 
magic and wish spells. Even if they are subjected to these spells, a saving throw is 
allowed (equal to the creator's saving throw vs. spell).
When creating objects, the caster is limited only by his own skill and the dimensions 
of the object. Items larger than a 10-foot-radius sphere cannot be fashioned. Creating the 
object requires only one round, regardless of size. Thus, a wizard could make an 
impenetrable dome or a small boat with this spell.
Objects made of wildfire are neither stable nor permanent. Since the object is made of 
magic separated from the magical continuum, the material gradually deteriorates until the 
magical bonds become too weak to hold the wildfire in the chosen form. This decay takes 
1d6+4 hours.

 Wildwind* (Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 100 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d3 turns
Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar in effect to wildstrike and wildzone. When cast, a wall of faint, 
multi-colored lights springs into existence at the point indicated by the caster. These 
lights form a line 150 feet long. After the first round of the spell, the wizard can move the 
wall of lights. Each round, the caster can move the wall in the same direction or as much 
as 45 degrees to either side. Once the wall is set in motion, it cannot be stopped unless the 
spell is cancelled or dispelled. The lights can move 60 feet per round.
The wildwind has two significant effects. First, all creatures struck by the magical 
lights suffer 2d6 points of damage. Second, any spellcaster struck while attempting to 
cast a spell automatically triggers a wild surge (use Table 2). Magical items that expend 
charges that touch the wall of lights automatically release one charge, also resulting in a 
wild surge.

 Wish
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Unlimited Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
The wish spell is a more potent version of a limited wish. If it is used to alter reality
with respect to damage sustained by a party, to bring a dead creature to life, or to escape
from a difficult situation by lifting the spellcaster (and his party) from one place to
another, it will not cause the wizard any disability. Other forms of wishes, however,
cause the spellcaster to weaken (-3 on Strength) and require 2d4 days of bed rest due to
the stresses the wish places upon time, space, and his body. Regardless of what is wished
for, the exact terminology of the wish spell is likely to be carried out. Casting a wish spell
ages the caster five years.
Discretionary power of the DM is necessary in order to maintain game balance. For
example, wishing another creature dead is grossly unfair; the DM might well advance the
spellcaster to a future period in which the creature is no longer alive, effectively putting
the wishing character out of the campaign.

