Spells work file Tier 3

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

 Third-Level Spells 

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 3 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 

 Alacrity (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn+1 round/level
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
The use of an alacrity spell allows the wizard to speed up the casting of spells of 5th 
level and lower. Only spells that are cast within the alacrity spell's duration are affected.
Casting times of 2-5 are reduced by 1; casting times of 6-9 are reduced by 2; and a 
casting time of one round is reduced to a casting time of 8. Casting times for spells which 
require more than 1 round are reduced by 20% (e.g., an animate dead spell affected by 
alacrity could be cast in only 4 rounds). Spells which have a casting time of 1 are not 
affected by this spell.
The material component is a miniature hourglass which is destroyed when the spell is 
cast. 

 Alamir's Fundamental Breakdown (Divination) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One item
Saving Throw: Special
By casting this spell, the wizard learns what ingredients and formulas were used to 
create a chemical mixture or magical item.
The information instantly appears in the caster's mind but may be lost if the wizard 
cannot comprehend it. The caster must roll an Intelligence check; if successful, the 
wizard understands the formula and retains it in his memory. If the roll is missed, the 
caster cannot comprehend what he has learned and the information is immediately 
forgotten. If the spell is cast a second time on the same substance, the spell automatically 
fails unless the wizard has advanced to the next experience level.
The caster's level determines the type of information gleaned:
5th Level: The type and quantity of ingredients and the preparation process required 
to produce a non-magical mixture are learned. For example, the wizard could learn how 
to produce Greek fire or gunpowder, or could learn the recipe for something simple, like 
chocolate cake.
9th Level: The wizard may learn the proper ingredients and formula for making a 
magical liquid (potion, scroll ink, etc.).
14th Level: The caster may learn the formula for creating any type of magical object, 
excluding unique items and objects of extreme power (artifacts and relics).
In all cases, simply knowing the proper formula does not mean the wizard can 
successfully create the item or material. The construction of alchemical mixtures and 
magical items is a time-consuming and expensive undertaking.
This spell has detrimental effects on the magical item analyzed. Single-use items 
(potions, oils, etc.) are automatically destroyed; the spell consumes the item in the 
process of analyzing it. Reusable magical items must make a saving throw vs. 
disintegration. If the saving throw is failed, Alamir's fundamental breakdown releases the 
magic of the item in an explosive blast, rendering it permanently nonmagical. The caster 
suffers 4d8 points of damage from the explosion.
The material component is a wand cut from a 100-year-old oak tree. The wand is used 
to touch the item in question, and vanishes in a puff of smoke when the spell is complete. 

 Alternate Reality* (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster creates a small variation in probabilities. This variation lasts 
only a moment, but creates alternate results for one recent event. When the spell is cast, 
any one event attempted by the recipient during the previous round is recalculated, 
essentially allowing (or forcing) the creature to make new die rolls.
Only events that begin and end in a single round can be affected. Only one die roll 
can be rerolled. If the creature touched is a willing recipient, the player can choose which 
roll (the original or the new roll) affects him, more than likely picking the most 
successful. If the creature is unwilling, he must redo the action. The second result, 
whatever its outcome, cannot be changed.
Typical uses of this spell include allowing a fighter to reroll an attack, forcing an 
opponent to reroll a saving throw, or allowing a wizard to reroll the damage caused by a 
fireball.
The material component is a small, unmarked die. 

 Augmentation I (Invocation/Evocation) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell augments the damage inflicted by any spell of levels 1-3. For each die of 
damage rolled, the caster adds one point to the damage total.
The augmentation I spell affects only one spell cast on the round immediately 
following the augmentation. If an entire round or more elapses, the augmentation is 
wasted.
Only spells which cause direct physical damage are affected by augmentation; for 
example, monsters gained through monster summoning I gain no bonuses to their 
damage.
The material component is a pair of concentric circles of bronze or silver. 

 Bands of Sirellyn
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 40 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: None
Once employed by the mysterious ancient wizard known as the Arcanamach, the 
mage Sirellyn rediscovered this forgotten dweomer many centuries after its last use. The 
spell causes a number of shining metal bands to materialize out of the air, encircling and 
capturing a target of the caster’s choice. The victim is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to 
elude capture, with a –1 penalty per three caster levels (for example, –1 for a 4th to 6th 
level caster, –2 for a 7th to 9th level caster, –3 for a 10th to 12th level caster, and so on), 
since higher-level casters tend to conjure more bands in a denser pattern. Any creature of 
less than size G (gargantuan) can be snared, but gargantuan monsters are simply too big 
to be restrained by the bands.
If the victim fails his saving throw vs. spell, he is caught and held immobile by 
the bands. He may not move his arms and legs, but he is still capable of speech and can 
employ psionic powers or use worn magical items, such as rings. Subjects with a Strength 
rating may attempt to burst the bands and free themselves with a bend bars/lift gates roll. 
If the subject does not have a strength rating, it may make a saving throw vs. petrification 
with a –4 penalty.
The spell requires three miniature bands of silver that are interlocked so that all 
three are connected.

 Bone Club (Enchantment, Necromancy) 
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One bone
Saving Throw: None
A wizard can use this spell to enchant a bone, causing it to become a magical club. 
This magical weapon acts as a club +4 against undead, inflicting 5-10 (1d6 +4) hit points 
of damage, and a club +1 against all other opponents, inflicting 2-7 (1d6 + 1) hit points 
of damage. The bone can be from any animal, providing the bone normally could be 
wielded as a club; for instance, a human femur could be enchanted by this spell, but a 
skull could not. At the end of the spell's duration, the bone club reverts to a normal bone. 
If the proficiency rules are being used, characters with a weapon proficiency with a 
club also have a profiency with a bone club. Those wielding a bone club without the club 
profiency suffer the penalties described on page 52 of the Player's Handbook.
The material components for this spell are an appropriately-sized bone and a pinch of 
dirt from a grave

 Blink
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard causes his material form to "blink" directly from one
point to another at a random time and in a random direction. This means that melee
attacks against the wizard automatically miss if initiative indicates they fall after he has
blinked.
Each round the spell is in effect, the wizard rolls 2d8 to determine the timing of the 
blink--the result of the dice roll is used as the wizard's initiative for that round. The
wizard disappears and instantaneously reappears 10 feet distant from his previous
position. (Direction is determined by a roll of 1d8: 1 = right ahead, 2 = right, 3 = right
behind, 4 = behind, 5 = left behind, 6 = left, 7 = left ahead, 8 = ahead.) The caster cannot
blink into a solid object; if such is indicated, reroll the direction. Movable objects of size
and mass comparable to the caster are shoved aside when the caster blinks in. If blinking
is impossible except into a fixed, solid object, the caster is then trapped on the Ethereal
Plane.
During each round that he blinks, the spellcaster can be attacked only by opponents
who win initiative or by those who are able to strike both locations at once (for example,
with a breath weapon, fireball, or similar wide-area attack forms). Opponents with
multiple attacks, or those operating under haste or similar effects, can often strike early
enough to have at least one attack against the caster.
If the spellcaster holds off his attack (if any) until after the blink, the 2d8 delay until
the blink is added to his normal 1d10 initiative roll (thus, he probably attacks last in the
round). The spellcaster can also try to get his attack in before he blinks (he must
announce his intent before rolling the 2d8 for blink timing and the 1d10 for initiative). In
this case, the caster compares the two dice rolls, hoping that his initiative roll is lower
than his blink roll (the two rolls are not added if he is trying to attack before he blinks). If
so, he attacks according to his initiative roll, then blinks according to the blink roll. If his
blink roll is lower than his initiative roll, however, he blinks first and then attacks in
whatever direction he's facing (he must go through with his attack, even if he is facing in
the wrong direction to affect anyone).

 Clairaudience
(Divination)
Range: Unlimited Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
The clairaudience spell enables the wizard to concentrate upon some locale and hear in
his mind any noise within a 60-foot radius of that point. Distance is not a factor, but the
locale must be known--a place familiar to the spellcaster or an obvious one (such as
behind a door, around a corner, in a copse of trees, etc.). Only sounds that are normally
detectable by the wizard can be heard by use of this spell. Lead sheeting or magical
protections prevent the operation of the spell, and the wizard has some indication that the
spell is so blocked. The spell creates an invisible sensor, similar to that created by a
crystal ball spell, that can be dispelled. The spell functions only on the wizard's current
plane of existence.
The material component of the spell is a small horn of at least 100 gp value.

 Clairvoyance
(Divination)
Range: Unlimited Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Line of sight Saving Throw: None
Similar to the clairaudience spell, the clairvoyance spell empowers the wizard to see in
his mind whatever is within sight range from the spell locale chosen. Distance from the
wizard is not a factor, but the locale must be known--familiar or obvious. Furthermore,
light is a factor, as the spell does not enable the use of infravision or magical
enhancements. If the area is magically dark, only darkness is seen; if naturally pitch dark,
only a 10-foot radius from the center of the spell's area of effect can be seen. Otherwise,
the seeing extends to the normal vision range according to the prevailing light. Lead
sheeting or magical protection foils a clairvoyance spell, and the wizard has some
indication that it is so blocked. The spell creates an invisible sensor, similar to that
created by a crystal ball spell, that can be dispelled. The spell functions only on the
wizard's current plane of existence.
The material component is a pinch of powdered pineal gland.

 Control Animal
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 animal Saving Throw: Neg.
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small audio/tactile Critical: None
When a priest casts this spell, he forces an animal to do his bidding. The creature 
is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell; if it fails, the caster may direct the creature with 
simple commands to act in any fashion desired. Sample commands include attack, run, 
fetch, etc. Suicidal or self-destructive commands grant the subject another saving throw 
to break free of the caster’s control, with a +1 to +4 bonus depending on the extremity of 
the caster’s orders. Ordering an animal to engage in combat is not necessarily 
self-destructive, as long as the prospective opponent is not more than three times the 
animal’s Hit Dice or more than two size categories larger than the subject. For example, a 
wolf (3 Hit Dice, size M) would attack a troll (6+6 Hit Dice, size L) without hesitation, 
but it might break free of the caster’s control if ordered to attack a size H dragon or an 
8+8 HD umber hulk.
Control animal establishes a mental link between the caster and the subject, and 
the animal can be directed by silent mental command as long as it remains within range. 
Because the caster’s intelligence directs the animal, the creature may be able to take 
actions normally beyond its own comprehension, such as manipulating objects with its 
paws and mouth. The caster need not concentrate in order to maintain control of the 
creature unless he is trying to direct it to do something it normally couldn’t.
Control animal only works on normal or giant-sized animals with Intelligence 
ratings between 1 and 4. Magical animals, monsters, and creatures of low Intelligence or 
higher are immune to the effects of this spell. Druids always avoid using this spell.

 Delay Death (Enchantment, Necromancy) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables one person or creature to postpone death. If delay death is cast 
before the indicated creature or person reaches 0 hit points, he is able to fight, cast spells, 
communicate, and take all other normal actions until he reaches -10 hit points. However, 
from the time he reaches 0 hit points until he is reduced to -10 hit points, the affected 
person or creature makes all attack rolls and saving throws at a -2 penalty, and his 
movement rate is reduced by half. 
When the subject reaches -10 hit points, he is dead and delay death is no longer in 
effect. Note that the spell has a limited duration; if the spell expires after the affected 
subject has reached 0 hit points but before he has been reduced to -10 hit points, the 
subject dies instantly. A deceased subject previously under the effect of delay death can 
be raised normally by raise dead and similar spells. 
The material component for this spell is a chip from a tombstone or a sliver of wood 
from a coffin

 Delude
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of a delude spell, the wizard conceals his own alignment with that of any
creature within a 30-foot radius at the time the spell is cast. The creature must be of
higher than animal intelligence for the spell to work; its own alignment remains
unchanged. The creature receives a saving throw vs. spell and, if successful, the delude
spell fails. If the spell is successful, any know alignment spell used against the caster
discovers only the assumed alignment. Note that a detect good or detect evil also detects
the assumed aura, if the aura is strong enough. The creature whose aura has been
assumed radiates magic, but the wizard radiates magic only to the creature whose
alignment has been assumed. If a delude spell is used in conjunction with a change self or
alter self spell, the class of the wizard can be totally hidden, if he is clever enough to
carry off the disguise.

 Dispel Magic
(Abjuration)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
When a wizard casts this spell, it has a chance to neutralize or negate magic it comes in
contact with, as follows:
First, it removes spells and spell-like effects (including device effects and innate
abilities) from creatures or objects. Second, it disrupts the casting or use of these in the 
area of effect at the instant the dispel is cast. Third, it destroys magical potions (which are
treated as 12th level for purposes of this spell).
Each effect or potion in the spell's area is checked to determine if it is dispelled. The
caster can always dispel his own magic; otherwise, the chance to dispel depends on the
difference in level between the magical effect and the caster. The base chance is 50% (11
or higher on 1d20 to dispel). If the caster is of higher level than the creator of the effect to
be dispelled, the difference is subtracted from the number needed on 1d20 to dispel
(making it more likely that the dispel succeeds); if the caster is of lower level, the
difference is added to the number needed on 1d20 to dispel (making it less likely that the
dispel succeeds). A roll of 20 always succeeds and a roll of 1 always fails. Thus, if a
caster is 10 levels higher, only a roll of 1 prevents the effect from being dispelled.
A dispel magic spell does not affect a specially enchanted item, such as a magical
scroll, ring, wand, rod, staff, miscellaneous item, weapon, shield, or armor, unless it is
cast directly upon the item. This renders the item nonoperational for 1d4 rounds. An item
possessed and carried by a creature gains the creature's saving throw against this effect;
otherwise, it is automatically rendered nonoperational. An interdimensional interface
(such as a bag of holding) rendered nonoperational would be temporarily closed. Note
that an item's physical properties are unchanged: A nonoperational magical sword is still
a sword.
Artifacts and relics are not subject to this spell; however, some of their spell-like
effects may be, at the DM's option.
Note that this spell can be very effective when used upon charmed and similarly
beguiled creatures. Certain spells or effects cannot be dispelled; these are listed in the
spell descriptions.

Summary of Dispel Magic Effects
Source of Effect            | Resists As               | Result of Dispel
Caster                      | None                     | Dispel automatic
Other caster/innate ability | Level/HD of other caster | Effect negated
Wand                        | 6th level                | *
Staff                       | 8th level                | *
Potion                      | 12th level               | Potion destroyed
Other magic                 | 12th, unless special     | *
Artifact                    | DM discretion            | DM discretion
 * Effect negated; if cast directly on item, item becomes non-operational for 1d4 rounds.

 Detect Spirits
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10 x 60 ft. path Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
This divination reveals the presence of disembodied or noncorporeal spirits of all 
types, including wraiths, ghosts, spectres, astrally-projecting creatures, characters or 
monsters employing magic jar or possession, and (of course) animal spirits and spirits of 
nature. Characters or monsters who are simply invisible, phased, or ethereal do not count 
as spirits, since they are physically present in the flesh despite their unusual status. The 
caster detects spirits in a path 10 feet wide and 60 feet long; any within the area of effect 
are revealed in their preferred form or appearance for all to see. Simply detecting a spirit 
doesn’t give the caster any special ability to communicate with or attack the entity.
The material component for this spell is a small pendant of copper wire worth at 
least 20 gp.

 Dictate
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm, Law
Range: 30 yds. Components: V
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Up to 6 creatures Saving Throw: Neg.
in a 20-ft. cube
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small audio Critical: None
Originally developed by the Harmonium faction of the Outer Planes, this useful 
spell has come into more widespread use in recent years. While the spell is available as a 
2nd-level enchantment for members of the Harmonium, the general version is not quite as 
efficient and is considered a 3rd-level spell.
The dictate spell is an improved version of command, affecting up to 6 creatures 
in a 20-foot cube. The caster is not limited to a single word and can issue an order of no 
more than a dozen words in length. All the specified targets who fail their saving throws 
must attempt to obey the caster’s instructions. For example, a priest could issue a dictate 
such as “Stay here until I return,” “Throw down your weapons,” or “Seize that elf!” The 
subjects will continue to obey nonimmediate orders for up to one round per experience 
level of the caster.
Subjects who cannot understand the caster are not affected, so characters who do 
not understand the caster’s language are immune to this spell. In addition, the order must 
create an immediate and obvious course of action for the subject; a dictate to “Die!” or 
“Feel sorry for him!” would simply cause the subject to stand still in confusion for one 
round. Poorly worded or confusing commands grant the subjects a +1 to +4 bonus on 
their saving throws at the DM’s discretion. Similarly, if after the subject fails his saving 
throw he is given an obviously self-destructive dictate, the subject simply loses his next 
round as he fights off the compulsion.

 Etherealness
(Alteration)
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell resembles the 5th-level wizard spell etherealness in many respects, but 
there are a few important differences. First, the priest may not leave the Border Ethereal 
and venture into the Deep Ethereal; therefore, at the end of the spell’s duration, he must 
return to the Prime Material Plane whether he wants to or not. Secondly, the priest may 
not use this spell on an unwilling target and can only make another creature ethereal if the 
subject is willing and in physical contact with the priest when the spell is cast. Besides 
himself, the caster can bring one creature per two experience levels (three at 5th, four at 
7th, five at 9th, and so on) to the Ethereal Plane. Even if the priest abandons his charges 
in the Border Ethereal, the stranded characters will automatically materialize when the 
spell ends.
While ethereal, the priest cannot be detected by any means short of a true seeing 
or detect phase spell. He perceives his surroundings as misty, gray, and otherworldly. No 
action he takes can affect the physical world, but he can pass through walls, doors, and 
other solid objects without hindrance. The priest can choose to end the spell voluntarily at 
any time, materializing in the physical world in one round. If the caster occupies a solid 
object when the spell ends, he is hurled into the Deep Ethereal and stranded in a catatonic 
stupor until he can be rescued.

 Explosive Runes
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None or _
By tracing these mystic runes upon a book, map, scroll, or similar object bearing
written information, the wizard prevents unauthorized persons from reading his material.
The explosive runes are difficult to detect--5% chance per level of magic use experience
of the reader; thieves have only a 5% chance. But trap detection by spell or magical
device always finds these runes.
When read, the explosive runes detonate, delivering 6d4+6 points of damage to the
reader, who gets no saving throw. A like amount, or half that if saving throws are made,
is suffered by each creature within the blast radius. The wizard who cast the spell, as well
as any he instructs, can read the protected writing without triggering the runes. Likewise,
the wizard can remove the runes whenever desired. Others can remove them only with a
successful dispel magic or erase spell. Explosive runes otherwise last until the spell is
triggered. The item upon which the runes are placed is destroyed when the explosion
takes place, unless it is not normally subject to destruction by magical fire (see the item
saving throws in Chapter 6 of the Dungeon Master Guide).

 Far Reaching I (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the wizard to extend the range of any one 1st- or 2nd-level spell by 
50% or any one 3rd-level spell by 25%. The spell to be affected must be cast on the 
round immediately following the far reaching I spell. If a complete round or more 
elapses, the far reaching I is wasted.
Far reaching I affects only a spell cast by the same wizard. Far reaching I does not 
affect spells that have range of 0 or touch. 

 Feign Death
(Necromancy)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr. + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster (or any other creature whose levels of experience or
Hit Dice do not exceed the wizard's own level) can be put into a cataleptic state that is
impossible to distinguish from death. Although the person or creature affected by the
feign death spell can smell, hear, and know what is going on, no feeling or sight of any
sort is possible. Thus, any wounding or mistreatment of the body is not felt and no
reaction occurs; damage is only half normal. In addition, paralysis, poison, and energy 
level drain cannot affect an individual under the influence of this spell. Poison injected or
otherwise introduced into the body takes effect when the spell recipient is no longer
under the influence of this spell, although a saving throw is permitted.
Note that only a willing individual can be affected by a feign death spell. The
spellcaster can end the spell effects at any time desired, as will a successful dispel, but a
full round is required for bodily functions to begin again.

 Fireball
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 20-ft. radius Saving Throw: _
A fireball is an explosive burst of flame, which detonates with a low roar and delivers
damage proportional to the level of the wizard who cast it--1d6 points of damage for each
level of experience of the spellcaster (up to a maximum of 10d6). The burst of the fireball
creates little pressure and generally conforms to the shape of the area in which it occurs.
The fireball fills an area equal to its normal spherical volume (roughly 33,000 cubic feet--
thirty-three 10-foot x 10-foot x 10-foot cubes). Besides causing damage to creatures, the
fireball ignites all combustible materials within its burst radius, and the heat of the
fireball melts soft metals such as gold, copper, silver, etc. Exposed items require saving
throws vs. magical fire to determine if they are affected, but items in the possession of a
creature that rolls a successful saving throw are unaffected by the fireball.
The wizard points his finger and speaks the range (distance and height) at which the
fireball is to burst. A streak flashes from the pointing digit and, unless it impacts upon a
material body or solid barrier prior to attaining the prescribed range, blossoms into the
fireball (an early impact results in an early detonation). Creatures failing their saving
throws each suffer full damage from the blast. Those who roll successful saving throws
manage to dodge, fall flat, or roll aside, each receiving half damage (the DM rolls the
damage and each affected creature suffers either full damage or half damage [round
fractions down], depending on whether the creature saved or not).
The material component of this spell is a tiny ball of bat guano and sulphur.

 Fireflow* (Alteration) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One fire source
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a wizard to control natural fires by manipulating randomness and 
adjusting probabilities to cause them to spread and take shape in any direction he desires. 
Once cast, the wizard points at any fire within range. He can then cause that fire to move 
in any direction desired within spell range, as long as the flames contact a solid surface 
(the fire may not be raised in the air).
The caster must maintain concentration or the spell fails. The flames can be spread at 
the rate of 50 square feet per turn. Thus, if a caster affects a campfire, he could create a 
flaming line 1 foot wide and 50 feet long or fill a 5' 0 10' square in a single round.
The flames are not limited by a lack of burnable material and can be directed to 
spread over water, snow, ice, and other nonflammable surfaces. The surface is not 
harmed, but objects and creatures caught in the flames suffer damage as if they had 
stepped into the original fire source. Thus, a character caught in flames created from a 
candle will suffer only minor damage, while a character caught in a blaze that originated 
from a huge bonfire will be severely burned.
The material components are a small paintbrush and a pot of pitch. 

 Flame Arrow
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 30 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell has two effects. First, the wizard can cause normal arrows or crossbow bolts
to become magical flaming missiles for one round. The missiles must be nocked and
drawn (or cocked) at the completion of the spell. If they are not loosed within one round,
they are consumed by the magic. For every five levels the caster has achieved, up to 10
arrows or bolts can be affected. The arrows inflict normal damage, plus 1 point of fire
damage to any target struck. They may also cause incendiary damage. This version of the
spell is used most often in large battles.
The second version of this spell enables the caster to hurl fiery bolts at opponents
within range. Each bolt inflicts 1d6 points of piercing damage, plus 4d6 points of fire
damage. Only half the fire damage is inflicted if the creature struck successfully saves vs.
spell. The caster receives one bolt for every five experience levels (two bolts at 10th
level, three at 15th level, etc.). Bolts must be used on creatures within 20 yards of each
other and in front of the wizard.
The material components for this spell are a drop of oil and a small piece of flint.

 Fly
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level + 1d6 turns Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to bestow the power of magical flight. The creature
affected is able to move vertically and horizontally at a rate of 18 (half that if ascending,
twice that if descending in a dive). The maneuverability class of the creature is B. Using
the fly spell requires as much concentration as walking, so most spells can be cast while
hovering or moving slowly (movement of 3). Possible combat penalties while flying are
known to the DM (found in the "Aerial Combat" section of Chapter 9 of the DMG). The
exact duration of the spell is always unknown to the spellcaster, as the variable addition is
determined secretly by the DM.
The material component of the fly spell is a wing feather of any bird.

 Fool's Speech* (Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Caster+1 creature/level
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the wizard empowers himself and others of his choosing with the 
ability to speak a secret language incomprehensible to others. Creatures designated to 
speak the language must be touching each other when the spell is cast.
Once cast, the characters can choose to speak normally or in their secret tongue. They 
can speak and understand this mysterious language fluently.
Fool's speech is not recognizable as any known language, nor does it remotely sound 
like any language. A comprehend languages or tongues spell will not translate it. It can 
be understood by a character wearing a helm of comprehending languages and reading 
magic, although the normal percentage chances apply.
The material component is a small whistle made of bone.

 Fortify
(Alteration)
Sphere: War
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10 ft. cube/2 levels Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
By means of this spell, the priest prepares an area as a defensive position. Fortify 
may be used to prepare an open outdoors area such as a field, road, or grassland, or a 
rough or broken outdoors area such as a hillside, forest, or boulder-fall. Large rooms or 
chambers such as a cavern or a great hall may be fortified as well. The exact effects of the 
spell depend on the nature of the site to be fortified.
 A. Open Outdoors Site: A rampart or dike of earth and loose stone rises from the 
ground along the perimeter of the site, leaving a shallow ditch on the outward face. 
Creatures defending the dike receive 50% cover against missile fire (+4 bonus to AC), or 
25% cover (+2 bonus) if they expose themselves by engaging in melee combat or firing 
missiles out of the dike. Attackers cannot charge, run, or sprint over the ditch-and-dike. 
Large, open rooms or chambers with few features may fall into this category.
 B. Rough Outdoors Site: Loose stones and boulders, deadwood, and patches of 
dense briars are arranged to form a defensible wall or rampart along the perimeter of the 
area of effect. Characters hiding behind the wall receive 75% cover (+7 bonus to AC), or 
50% cover if they expose themselves by firing missiles or defending the wall. In 
hand-to-hand combat, the wall’s defenders receive a +1 bonus to attack rolls; man-sized 
attackers must spend one full round in climbing over the wall in order to enter the 
fortified area. Natural caverns and large, cluttered chambers fall into this category, as 
well.
 C. Marshy or Low-lying Site: In areas such as swamp, marsh, bog, or tundra, 
fortify cannot raise a wall or dike to cover the defenders. Instead, the spell creates a 
water-filled ditch around the perimeter of the area of effect. This ditch is 10 feet wide and 
2 to 4 feet deep; most creatures require 1 full round to negotiate the ditch, and defenders 
gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls against enemies who are wading the ditch or climbing up 
the other side.
The fortifications are permanent, although erosion, weathering, and excavations, 
clearing, or filling can quickly raze the site, returning it to its original state. The material 
component is the shell of a snail dusted with 100 gold pieces worth of diamond powder. 
In Battlesystem® rules, fortify provides a defending unit with a +2 bonus to its AR 
against missile and melee attacks, but no bonus against missile attacks in marshy or 
low-lying areas.

 Gust of Wind
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10 ft. x 10 yds./level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a strong puff of air originates from the wizard and moves in the
direction he is facing. The force of this gust of wind (about 30 m.p.h.) is sufficient to
extinguish candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames. It causes protected flames--
such as those of lanterns--to dance wildly and has a 5% chance per level of experience of
the spellcaster to extinguish even such lights. It also fans large fires outward 1d6 feet in
the direction of the wind's movement. It forces back small flying creatures 1d6 x 10 yards
and causes man-sized beings to be held motionless if attempting to move against its
force. It slows larger-than-man-sized flying creatures by 50% for one round. It blows
over light objects, disperses most vapors, and forces away gaseous or unsecured
levitating creatures. Its path is a constant 10 feet wide, by 10 yards long per level of
experience of the caster (for example, an 8th-level wizard causes a gust of wind that
travels 80 yards).
The material component of the spell is a legume seed.

 Haste
(Alteration)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 40-ft. cube, Saving Throw: None
1 creature/level
When this spell is cast, each affected creature functions at double its normal movement
and attack rates. A hasted creature gains a -2 initiative bonus. Thus, a creature moving at
6 and attacking once per round would move at 12 and attack twice per round.
Spellcasting and spell effects are not sped up. The number of creatures that can be
affected is equal to the caster's experience level; those creatures closest to the center of
effect are affected first. All affected by haste must be in the designated area of effect.
Note that this spell negates the effects of a slow spell. Additionally, this spell ages the
recipient by one year, because of sped-up metabolic processes. This spell is not
cumulative with itself or with other similar magic.
Its material component is a shaving of licorice root.

 Hold Person
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1-4 persons, 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell holds 1d4 humans, demihumans, or humanoid creatures rigidly immobile for
five or more rounds.
The hold person spell affects any bipedal human, demihuman or humanoid of man size
or smaller, including brownies, dryads, dwarves, elves, gnolls, gnomes, goblins, halfelves, halflings, half-orcs, hobgoblins, humans, kobolds, lizard men, nixies, orcs, pixies,
sprites, troglodytes, and others.
The spell is centered on a point selected by the caster; it affects persons selected by the
caster within the area of effect. If the spell is cast at three or four people, each gets an
unmodified saving throw. If only two people are being enspelled, each makes his saving
throw with a -1 penalty. If the spell is cast at only one person, the saving throw suffers a -
3 penalty. Saving throws are adjusted for Wisdom. Those succeeding on their saving
throws are unaffected by the spell. Undead creatures cannot be held.
Held beings cannot move or speak, but they remain aware of events around them and
can use abilities not requiring motion or speech. Being held does not prevent the
worsening of the subjects' condition due to wounds, disease, or poison. The caster can
end the spell with a single utterance at any time; otherwise, the duration is 10 rounds at
5th level, 12 rounds at 6th level, 14 rounds at 7th level, etc.
The spellcaster needs a small, straight piece of iron as the material component of this
spell.

 Hold Poison
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell is an improved version of slow poison, with a duration measured in 
days rather than hours. When cast upon a victim who has been poisoned by any means, 
hold poison arrests the venom and prevents it from doing any additional damage to the 
victim. (In most cases, the spell must be cast during the poison’s onset time in order to be 
effective.) Damage that has already been inflicted is not restored, but as long as the hold 
poison is in effect, the victim can be cured or healed of damage caused by poison by any 
normal means.
This spell can be used to indefinitely postpone the onset of a poison if the caster 
chooses to continue to cast it on the poisoned character before the previous hold poison 
wears off. However, each time a new hold poison is used to stop the venom’s advance for 
another few days, there is a 2% cumulative chance that the spell fails and the poison runs 
its course. Evil priests have been known to deliberately poison a person and then use this 
spell to grant the victim a stay of death for a few days. This can be an extremely effective
threat if the victim doesn’t have access to a neutralize poison spell.
The material component is the priest’s holy symbol and a bud of garlic, crushed 
and smeared on the injury (or eaten if the poison was ingested).

 Hold Undead
(Necromancy)
Range: 60 ft. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1d3 undead Saving Throw: Neg.
When cast, this spell renders immobile 1d3 undead creatures whose total Hit Dice are
equal to or less than the caster's level. No more than three undead can be affected by a
single spell. To cast, the wizard aims the spell at a point within range and the three
undead closest to this are considered to be in the area of effect, provided all are within the
field of vision and spell range of the caster. Undead of a mindless nature (skeletons,
zombies, or ghouls) are automatically affected. Other forms of undead are allowed a
saving throw to negate the effect. If the spell is successful, it renders the undead
immobile for the duration of the spell.
The material component for this spell is a pinch of sulphur and powdered garlic.

 Hovering Skull (Necromancy)
Range: Special
Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a glowing human skull with sharp fangs. The skull hovers about a 
foot above the caster's shoulder; as the caster moves, the skull hovers along with him. If 
the caster stops moving and concentrates, he can mentally command the hovering skull to 
move in any direction within a 30- foot radius.
The caster can see through the skull's eyes as if they were his own; for instance, the 
hovering skull could be ordered to investigate a dark cave or peek over a high wall. 
Additionally, the caster can order the hovering skull to attack victims with its razor-sharp 
teeth. If the caster's concentration is interrupted while controlling the skull, the skull 
immediately drops to the ground (but it takes no damage). If the caster resumes 
concentration, he can continue to command the skull. The hovering skull has the same 
statistics as the caster, except the skull has 3 hit points and inflicts 1-6 hit points of 
damage with its bite. Attacks directed at the skull do not harm the caster, nor does 
damage directed at the caster affect the skull. 
The material component for this spell is the tooth from a human skull. 

 Illusionary Script
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Script reader Saving Throw: Special
This spell enables the wizard to write instructions or other information on parchment,
paper, etc. The illusionary script appears to be some form of foreign or magical writing.
Only the person (or people) who the wizard desires to read the writing can do so. An
illusionist recognizes it for illusionary script.
Unauthorized creatures glancing at the script must roll saving throws vs. spell. A
successful save means the creature can look away with only a mild sense of
disorientation. Failure means the creature is subject to a suggestion implanted in the
script by the caster at the time the illusionary script spell was cast. The suggestion cannot
require more than three turns to carry out. The suggestion could be to close the book and
leave, or to forget the existence of the book, for example. A successful dispel magic spell
will remove the illusionary script, but an unsuccessful attempt erases all of the writing.
The hidden writings can be read by a combination of the true seeing spell and either the
read magic or comprehend languages spell, as applicable.
The material component is a lead-based ink that requires special manufacture by an
alchemist, at a cost of not less than 300 gp per usage.

 Improved Magic Mouth 
(Alteration) 
Level: 3
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 object
Saving Throw: None
This spell works in all ways like the 2nd-level wizard spell magic mouth, except as 
follows.
When this spell is cast, the mouth is endowed with the bard's current knowledge, 
Intelligence, and personality. When the predetermined event occurs that activates the 
mouth, it converses as if the bard were actually there. For example, the mouth might say, 
"Who goes there?" and wait for a reply. If the visitors announce their names, it could go 
on to say, "Tarnak, please proceed to the music room, while the rest wait in the sitting 
room."
The mouth lasts until the conversation is over.
Although the mouth can be set to activate due to a visual stimulus (i.e., activate if 
anyone wearing a green feather approaches the castle gate), once triggered, it reacts only 
to sounds and speech. Also note that the mouth and the bard are not linked in any way. 
Once cast, the mouth's knowledge is set and will never change. Thus, if a bard is 
extremely angry at Tarnak when he casts an improved magic mouth, the mouth will 
remain in a state of anger, even if the bard and Tarnak have reconciled.

 Infravision
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard enables the recipient to see in normal darkness up to
60 feet without light. Note that strong sources of light (fire, lanterns, torches, etc.) tend to
blind this vision, so infravision does not function efficiently in the presence of such light
sources. Invisible creatures are not detectable by infravision.
The material component of this spell is either a pinch of dried carrot or an agate.

 Instant Audience 
(Conjuration) 
Level: 3
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Up to 4 hours
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 room or area within range
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, audience members are magically conjured. Each round 1d4 
people enter the room or area in a normal manner. (They actually appear just outside the 
room when no one is looking.) This continues for a number of rounds equal to the caster's 
level.
The audience contains a combination of races, gender, and social class appropriate to 
the occasion.
Instant audience members act in every way like any other members of the audience. 
They walk around during intermission, talk, eat snacks, and so on. However, they always 
evade questions about their past, their history, or current events, as they have no past, no 
history, and have no idea as to what is going on in the world outside of the room.
Instant audience members are strictly noncombative and never attack or cast spells 
(although they can be bullies or braggarts if that is appropriate). If one suffers even a 
single point of damage, he instantly vanishes along with all of his items (including items 
no longer on his body, such as clothes that he hung in the linen closet).
Once the performance ends, instant audience members leave in an appropriate manner 
and vanish as soon as they are out of view.
If the audience is treated in an inappropriate way (as determined by the DM), the spell 
instantly ends. For example, an audience could be summoned to watch a combat, but if 
the audience is used as a human shield, it vanishes.
The material components are a small collection of the items carried by the appropriate 
audience (a gold coin, a piece of fine fabric, a snuff box, etc.). These are tossed into a bag 
that contains at least one live mouse. The mouse is not destroyed, but vanishes during the 
spell to reappear somewhere in the room after the spell ends.


 Invisible Mail (Evocation, Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
A variation of the armor spell, this spell enables the caster to cover his body with an 
invisible suit of plate mail to temporarily raise his AC to 3. Its effects are not cumulative 
with other armor or magical protection (a character cannot improve his AC better than 3 
through use of this spell), but Dexterity bonuses still apply. 
For each level of the caster, the invisible mail absorbs 1 hit point of damage that would 
normally hit AC 3; however, the invisible mail offers no protection against magical 
weapons or attacks. When the invisible mail has absorbed as many hit points of damage 
as the wizard has levels of experience, the invisible mail disappears. The invisible mail 
does not hinder movement, nor does it add weight or encumbrance. It does not interfere 
with spell casting. 
Example: A wizard with a normal AC of 10 has shielded himself with invisible mail. 
The first opponent attacks with a normal dagger; the attack is made against the AC 3 of 
the invisible mail. The attack is successful, causing 2 hit points of damage, but this 
damage is absorbed by the invisible mail and the wizard is unharmed. A second attack is
made with a sword +1. The invisible armor offers no protection against this magical 
weapon, so the attack is made against the wizard's normal AC of 10. 
The material component is a small fragment of plate mail.  

 Invisibility, 10' Radius
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell confers invisibility upon all creatures within 10 feet of the recipient. Gear
carried and light sources are included, but any light emitted is still visible. The center of
the effect is mobile with the recipient. Those affected by this spell cannot see each other.
Any affected creature moving out of the area becomes visible, but creatures moving into
the area after the spell is cast do not become invisible. Affected creatures (other than the
recipient) that attack negate the invisibility only for themselves. If the spell recipient
attacks, the invisibility, 10’ radius spell is broken for all.
The material components are the same as for the invisibility spell.

 Iron Mind (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: S, M
Duration: 1 hour
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
The person or creature affected by iron mind is immune to all charm and hold spells 
for a full hour. Additionally, he automatically disbelieves all illusions cast by 3rd-level 
wizards (or their equivalent) or lower. 
The material component for this spell is a small chunk of iron ore or any small item 
made of solid iron, such as a nail.

 Item
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 hrs./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 2 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to shrink one nonmagical item (if it is within
the size limit) to 1/12 of its normal size. Optionally, the caster can also change its nowshrunken composition to a clothlike one. An object in the possession of another creature
is allowed a saving throw vs. spell. Objects changed by an item spell can be returned to
normal composition and size merely by tossing them onto any solid surface or by a word
of command from the original spellcaster. Even a burning fire and its fuel can be shrunk
by this spell.

 Lance of Disruption
(Invocation/Evocation, Elemental Air, Force)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 5 ft. x 60 ft. Saving Throw: 1/2
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: d10
Sensory: Huge audio vibration Critical: Medium (1 hit) 
This spell creates a beam of concussive, disrupting force that lashes out from the 
wizard’s hand in a path 5 feet wide and 60 feet long. Any creatures caught in the beam’s 
path suffer 5d4 points of damage, plus 2 points of damage per caster level (maximum 
damage is 5d4+30); for example, a 6th-level wizard would inflict 5d4+12 damage with 
the lance of disruption. Victims are allowed a saving throw vs. spell for half damage. The 
lance’s energy delivers a powerful blow against inanimate objects and can easily blast 
light furniture, thin wooden walls, or fragile stonework to flinders. Barred wooden doors 
can be blasted of their hinges and even sturdy iron-bound doors or heavy stonework can 
be seriously damaged by the lance of disruption.
Creatures with amorphous or nonsolid bodies, such as fire or air elementals and 
some oozes and slimes, are resistant to the lance’s effects and only sustain half damage, 
or one-quarter damage with a successful save.

 Leomund's Tiny Hut
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 15-ft.-diameter sphere Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates an unmoving, opaque sphere of force of any
desired color around his person. Half of the sphere projects above the ground, and the
lower hemisphere passes through the ground. Up to seven other man-sized creatures can
fit into the field with its creator; they can freely pass into and out of the hut without
harming it. However, if the spellcaster removes himself from the hut, the spell dissipates.
The temperature inside the hut is 70 F., if the exterior temperature is between 0 and
100 F. An exterior temperature below 0 or above 100 lowers or raises, respectively, the
interior temperature on a 1 -for-1 basis. The tiny hut also provides protection against the
elements, such as rain, dust, sandstorms, and the like. The hut can withstand any wind of
less than hurricane force without being harmed, but wind force greater than that destroys
it.
The interior of the hut is a hemisphere; the spellcaster can illuminate it dimly upon
command, or extinguish the light as desired. Note that although the force field is opaque
from the outside, it is transparent from within. Missiles, weapons, and most spell effects
can pass through the hut without affecting it, although the occupants cannot be seen from
outside the hut. The hut can be dispelled.
The material component for this spell is a small crystal bead that shatters when the
spell duration expires or the hut is dispelled.

 Lesser Sign of Sealing
(Abjuration, Geometry)
Range: 0 Components: S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One portal Saving Throw: 1/2
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: d8
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: Medium, type varies
By using this spell, the caster creates a magical ward that has two major effects; 
first of all, it affects a doorway or item that opens (a chest, for instance) as if it were a 
hold portal spell, keeping it securely locked and closed. Secondly, if the protected 
doorway is forced open by any means, magical or physical, the sign is not only destroyed, 
but also strikes the offending creature for 1d8 points of damage +1 point of damage per 
level of the caster. The duration of this spell is either one day per level of the caster or 
until discharged, whichever happens first. The exact form of energy is chosen by the 
caster when he creates the lesser sign; acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic disruption are 
popular choices.
The sign is not hidden or concealed in any way and is usually quite prominent on 
the item or portal it protects. The caster cannot specify particular creatures or conditions 
for the lesser sign’s operation; it functions against any creature that attempts to pass it 
(except for extraplanar creatures of 6 HD or more and wizards of higher level than the 
caster—they can merely ignore it as if it were not there). The sign cannot be dispelled by 
spells of lower spell levels such as knock, but the caster can remove it any time he 
chooses, thus ending the spell, or it can be defeated by an erase spell cast by a wizard of 
equal or higher level than the original caster.
The material component for a lesser sign can be a pinch of either powdered 
diamond (cold), ruby (fire), emerald (acid), pearl (sonic disruption, or sapphire 
(electricity), depending on the type of energy the wizard wishes the sign to employ. The 
value of the gemstone must be at least 100 gold pieces.

 Lightning Bolt
(Evocation)
Range: 40 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: _
Upon casting this spell, the wizard releases a powerful stroke of electrical energy that
inflicts 1d6 points of damage per level of the spellcaster (maximum damage per level of
10d6) to each creature within its area of effect. A successful saving throw vs. spell
reduces this damage to half (round fractions down). The bolt begins at a range and height
decided by the caster and streaks outward in a direct line from the casting wizard (for
example, if a 40-foot bolt was started at 180 feet from the wizard, the far end of the bolt
would reach 220 feet (180 + 40). The lightning bolt may set fire to combustibles, sunder
wooden doors, splinter up to a half-foot thickness of stone, and melt metals with a low
melting point (lead, gold, copper, silver, bronze). Saving throws must be rolled for
objects that withstand the full force of a stroke (see the fireball spell). If the damage
caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it (i.e., the saving throw fails),
the bolt continues. A bolt can breach 1 inch of wood or half an inch of stone per caster
level, up to a maximum of 1 foot of wood or half a foot of stone.
The lightning bolt's area of effect is chosen by the spellcaster: either a forked bolt 10
feet wide and 40 feet long or a single bolt 5 feet wide and 80 feet long. If a bolt cannot
reach its full length, because of an unyielding barrier (such as a stone wall), the lightning
bolt rebounds from the barrier toward its caster, ending only when it reaches its full
length.
For example: An 80-foot-long stroke is begun at a range of 40 feet, but it hits a stone
wall at 50 feet. The bolt travels 10 feet, hits the wall, and rebounds for 70 feet back
toward its creator (who is only 50 feet from the wall, and so is caught in his own
lightning bolt!).
The DM might allow reflecting bolts. When this type of lightning bolt strikes a solid
surface, the bolt reflects from the surface at an angle equal to the angle of incidence (like
light off a mirror). A creature crossed more than once by the bolt must roll a saving throw
for every time it is crossed, but it still suffers either full damage (if one saving throw is
missed) or half damage (if all saving throws are made).
The material components of the spell are a bit of fur and an amber, crystal, or glass
rod.

 Lorloveim's Creeping Shadow (Illusion) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster's shadow
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes the wizard's shadow to elongate, stretching away from his body at a 
rate of 15 yards per round. It can elongate a maximum distance of 10 yards per level of 
the caster.
The shadow moves as an ordinary shadow, along floors and up walls. The caster may 
maneuver in any manner feasible to place the shadow where he desires. A caster might 
position his shadow over a high window in a tower in order to spy on the tower's 
occupants. The shadow makes no sound and is 90% undetectable in all but the brightest 
surroundings.
While the spell lasts, the illusionist can see, hear, and speak through his shadow. The 
shadow cannot physically touch, pick up, or attack creatures or objects. It can be struck 
only by spells, magical weapons of +1 or better, or other special attacks (such as a 
dragon's breath). The shadow has the same Armor Class as the caster. Hit points lost by 
the shadow are suffered by the caster.
To cast the spell, a light source of at least the brightness of a candle must be present.
The material component is a small statuette of the caster sculpted from a piece of 
obsidian worth at least 1,000 gp. 

 Maximilian's Stony Grasp (Evocation) 
Range: 20 yards+10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Special
This spell must be cast on stony ground, such as a manmade stone floor, a natural 
cavern floor, or a boulder-strewn field. It is not possible to cast the spell on a stone wall 
or ceiling. The spell causes an arm made of stone (about the same size as a normal human 
limb) to rise from the ground beneath any creature targeted by the caster. The stony hand 
attempts to grasp the leg of the targeted creature, who is allowed a saving throw to avoid 
the effect; if the save is successful, the hand disappears. Each round thereafter, the hand 
has a 5% chance per level of the caster of reappearing and attacking.
Creatures grasped by the hand suffer a movement rate of 0, AC penalty of -2, and 
attack penalty of -2. Grasped characters lose any Dexterity bonuses. The hand causes no 
damage to its victim.
The stony limb has AC 2 and hit points equal to triple the caster's maximum hit 
points. The maximum number of hit points a stony hand may have is 60.
The material component is a miniature hand sculpted from stone, which crumbles to 
dust when the conjured hand is destroyed or the spell expires. 

 Melf's Minute Meteors
(Evocation, Alteration)
Range: 70 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 target/meteor Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to cast small globes of fire (one for each experience level 
he has attained), each of which bursts into a 1-foot-diameter sphere upon impact,
inflicting 1d4 points of damage to the creature struck. It can also ignite combustible
materials (even solid planks). The meteors are treated as missiles hurled by the wizard
with a +2 bonus to the attack rolls and with no penalty for range. Misses are treated as
grenadelike missiles that inflict 1 point of damage to creatures within 3 feet.
The spell can be cast in either of two ways:
A) The wizard discharges five meteors every round (see the "Multiple Attacks and
Initiative" section in Chapter 9: Combat). Note that this carries over into at least the
following round.
B) The wizard discharges only one meteor per round. In addition to releasing the
missile, the caster can perform other actions in the round, including spellcasting, melee,
or device use. Spells requiring concentration force the wizard to forgo the rest of the
missiles to maintain concentration. Also, if the wizard fails to maintain an exact mental
count of the number of missiles he has remaining, he has involuntarily lost the remaining
portion of the spell.
The spell ends when the caster has fired off as many meteors as he has experience
levels, when he forgoes casting any still remaining, or when a successful dispel magic
spell is thrown upon the caster.
The components necessary for the casting of this spell are nitre and sulphur formed
into a bead by the addition of pine tar. The caster must also have a small hollow tube of
minute proportion, fashioned from gold. The tube costs no less than 1,000 gp to
construct, so fine is its workmanship and magical engraving, and it can be reused.

 Minor Malison (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 30-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a wizard to adversely affect all the saving throws of his enemies. 
Opponents under the influence of this spell make all saving throws at a penalty of -1.
Alternatively, the wizard may select any one school of magic and cause his enemies 
to make all saving throws against magic from that school at -2. This penalty is not 
cumulative with a saving throw penalty derived from the wizard being a specialist; the 
penalty is not increased to -3. 
 
 Monster Summoning I
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 30-yd. radius Saving Throw: None
Within one round of casting this spell, the wizard magically conjures 2d4 1st-level
monsters (selected by the DM, from his 1st-level encounter tables). The monsters appear
anywhere within the spell's area of effect, as desired by the wizard. They attack the spell
user's opponents to the best of their ability until either he commands that the attacks
cease, the spell duration expires, or the monsters are slain. These creatures do not check
morale, but they vanish when slain. Note that if no opponent exists to fight, summoned
monsters can, if the wizard can communicate with them and if they are physically able,
perform other services for the summoning wizard.
In rare cases, adventurers have been known to disappear, summoned by powerful
spellcasters using this spell. Those summoned recall all the details of their trip.
The material components of this spell are a tiny bag and a small (not necessarily lit)
candle.
 
 Nondetection
(Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature or item Saving Throw: None
By casting this spell, the wizard makes the creature or object touched undetectable by
divination spells such as clairaudience, clairvoyance, locate object, ESP, and detect
spells. It also prevents location by such magical items as crystal balls and ESP
medallions. It does not affect the know alignment spell or the ability of intelligent or
high-level beings to detect invisible creatures. If a divination is attempted, the
nondetection caster must roll a saving throw vs. spell. If this is successful, the divination
fails.
The material component of the spell is a pinch of diamond dust worth 300 gp.

 Pain Touch (Divination) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
Pain touch enables the caster to touch an opponent in such a way as to induce extreme 
pain. The spell works if the caster touches any exposed part of an opponent's body. The 
caster must be within arm's length of the opponent for the spell to work. The spell 
requires a normal attack roll. 
The pain causes no damage, but for the next 1-4 rounds, the victim will be -2 on his 
chance to hit and his AC is worsened by 2. The caster can cast the spell and touch the 
victim in the same round. Pain touch is only effective on human, demihuman, and 
humanoid opponents. 
The material components for this spell are a needle and the finger from a scorched 
glove. 

 Phantom Steed
(Conjuration, Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates a quasi-real, horselike creature. The steed
can be ridden only by the wizard who created it, or by any person for whom the wizard
specifically creates such a mount. A phantom steed has a black head and body, gray mane
and tail, and smoke-colored, insubstantial hooves that make no sound. Its eyes are milkycolored. It does not fight, but all normal animals shun it and only monstrous ones will
attack. The mount has an Armor Class of 2 and 7 hit points, plus 1 per level of the caster.
If it loses all of its hit points, the phantom steed disappears. A phantom steed moves at a
movement rate of 4 per level of the spellcaster, to a maximum movement rate of 48. It
has what seems to be a saddle and a bit and bridle. It can bear its rider's weight, plus up to
10 pounds per caster level.
These mounts gain certain powers according to the level of the wizard who created
them:
8th Level: The ability to pass over sandy, muddy, or even swampy ground without
difficulty.
10th Level: The ability to pass over water as if it were firm, dry ground.
12th Level: The ability to travel in the air as if it were firm land, so chasms and the like
can be crossed without benefit of a bridge. Note, however, that the mount cannot casually
take off and fly; the movement must be between points of similar altitude.
14th Level: The ability to perform as if it were a pegasus; it flies at a rate of 48 per
round upon command.
Note that a mount's abilities include those of lower levels; thus, a 12th-level mount has
the 8th-, 10th-, and 12th-level abilities.

 Protection from Amorphs
(Abjuration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium tactile Critical: None
This abjuration resembles the spells protection from vermin or protection from 
evil, but in this case the caster is protected from the attacks of any of the various 
amorphous monsters, including slimes, jellies, oozes, puddings, cubes, and slithering 
trackers. In order to qualify as an amorphous creature, the monster must have an 
amorphous or fluid body, attack through acids or secretions of some kind, and be native 
to the Prime Material Plane (as opposed to extraplanar elementals and such creatures). 
The monster cannot stand the touch of the barrier surrounding the protected character, 
and its natural attacks automatically fail. If the monster has an innate ranged attack of any 
kind, these also fail.
If the protected character makes an attack against the monster, or if he forces the 
barrier against the monster, the spell ends and he is no longer protected. The material 
component is a mixture of rare salts sprinkled in a small circle around the character to be 
protected.

 Protection From Evil, 10' Radius
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
around creature touched
The globe of protection of this spell is identical in all respects to a protection from evil
spell, except that it encompasses a much larger area and its duration is greater. The effect
is centered on and moves with the creature touched. Any protected creature within the
circle can break the warding against enchanted or summoned monsters by meleeing them.
If a creature too large to fit into the area of effect is the recipient of the spell, the spell
acts as a normal protection from evil spell for that creature only.
To complete this spell, the caster must trace a circle 20 feet in diameter using
powdered silver. The material component for the reverse is powdered iron.

 Protection From Normal Missiles
(Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard bestows total invulnerability to hurled and projected
missiles such as arrows, axes, bolts, javelins, small stones, and spears. Furthermore, it
causes a reduction of 1 from each die of damage (but no die inflicts less than 1 point of
damage) inflicted by large or magical missiles, such as ballista missiles, catapult stones,
hurled boulders, and magical arrows, bolts, javelins, etc. Note, however, that this spell
does not convey any protection from such magical attacks as fireballs, lightning bolts, or
magic missiles.
The material component of this spell is a piece of tortoise or turtle shell.

 Repair Injury
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
Repair injury is intended for use in campaigns featuring the critical hit or critical 
strike rules. This spell addresses one specific injury or wound (see Chapter 8). It can be 
used to knit a broken bone, alleviate the swelling and pain of a sprain or a twist, or repair 
soft-tissue damage such as an injured eye, ear, or a severed tendon. If used as a simple 
curing spell, repair injury restores 1d10+1 hit points to the injured character, but if used 
to address the effects of a specific injury, repair injury automatically removes one 
grazed, struck, injured, or broken condition, and alleviates any combat, movement, or 
maximum hit point penalties associated with the injury in question. The spell does not 
restore any lost hit points to the victim, other than the 1d10+1 that are incidental to the 
working of the spell.
Beran, a fighter with 44 hit points, is struck by an ogre’s club. The blow inflicts 
12 points of damage, but Beran also suffers a broken hip. This injury will reduce him to a 
maximum of 25% of his normal total, so Beran’s current hit points drop from 32 to 11
after the battle ends. In addition, he is not capable of moving or attacking due to the 
effects of the injury.
When the smoke clears, Talmos the priest comes to Beran’s aid. Using repair 
injury, he knits Beran’s broken hip. The spell cures 6 hit points in the process. Beran no 
longer suffers the movement or attack penalties for a broken hip and has 17 hit points to 
his credit. With time or additional healing, he can regain his normal total of 44.
Repair injury is also helpful in dealing with wounds that fall in the crushed, 
shattered, or destroyed category. This spell reduces the severity of the injury to the 
broken level, which means it heals as if it were 20d6 lost hit points. Only one repair 
injury can be used on any given wound, so a character with a shattered knee could still 
require a lot of time to recover after an application of this spell.
Severed limbs, destroyed eyes or ears, and ability score losses caused by injuries 
cannot be healed by this spell. Repair injury is the equivalent of cure serious wounds for 
the purpose of slowing or stopping bleeding.

 Secret Page
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until dispelled Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 page, Saving Throw: None
up to 2 ft. square
When cast, a secret page spell alters the actual contents of a page so that they appear to
be something entirely different. Thus, a map can be changed to become a treatise on
burnishing ebony walking sticks. The text of a spell can be altered to show a ledger page
or even another form of spell. Confuse languages and explosive runes spells may be cast
upon the secret page, but a comprehend languages spell cannot reveal the secret page's
contents. The caster is able to reveal the original contents by speaking a command word,
perusing the actual page, and then returning it to its secret page form. The caster can also
remove the spell by double repetition of the command word. Others noting the dim magic
of a page within this spell cloaking its true contents can attempt to dispel magic, but if it
fails, the page is destroyed. A true seeing spell does not reveal the contents unless cast in
combination with a comprehend languages spell. An erase spell can destroy the writing.
The material components are powdered herring scales and either will o' wisp or
boggart essence.

 Sepia Snake Sigil
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 5 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 sigil Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a small written symbol appears in the text of any written work.
When read, the so-called sepia snake springs into being and strikes at the nearest living
creature (but does not attack the wizard who cast the spell). Its attack is made as if it were
a monster with Hit Dice equal to the level of the wizard who cast the spell. If it strikes
successfully, the victim is engulfed in a shimmering amber field of force, frozen and
immobilized until released, either at the caster's command, by a successful dispel magic
spell, or until a time equal to 1d4 days + 1 day per caster level has elapsed. Until then,
nothing can get at the victim, move the shimmering force surrounding him, or otherwise
affect him. The victim does not age, grow hungry, sleep, or regain spells while in this
state. He is not aware of his surroundings. If the sepia snake misses its target, it dissipates
in a flash of brown light, with a loud noise and a puff of dun-colored smoke that is 10 feet
in diameter and lasts for one round.
The spell cannot be detected by normal observation, and detect magic reveals only that
the entire text is magical. A dispel magic can remove it; an erase spell destroys the entire
page of text. It can be cast in combination with other spells that hide or garble text.
The components for the spell are 100 gp worth of powdered amber, a scale from any
snake, and a pinch of mushroom spores.

 Slow
(Alteration)
Range: 90 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 40-ft. cube, Saving Throw: Neg.
1 creature/level
A slow spell causes affected creatures to move and attack at half their normal rates. It
negates a haste spell or equivalent, but does not otherwise affect magically speeded or
slowed creatures. Slowed creatures have an Armor Class penalty of +4 AC, an attack
penalty of -4, and all Dexterity combat bonuses are negated. The magic affects a number
of creatures equal to the spellcaster's level, if they are within the area of effect chosen by
the wizard (i.e., a 40-foot cubic volume centered as called for by the caster). The 
creatures are affected from the center of the spell outward. Saving throws against the
spell suffer a -4 penalty.
The material component of this spell is a drop of molasses.

 Snapping Teeth (Conjuration, Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object
Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster causes a set of teeth to appear on a person or object; 
the teeth appear in the exact location touched by the caster. The snapping teeth are 
contained in a mouth-like orifice about 6 inches in diameter and are capable of snapping 
at victims within 1 foot. A person or creature with the snapping teeth can cause them to 
snap at will, effectively giving him an extra attack per round. A normal attack roll is 
made, and a successful hit inflicts 1-4 hit points of damage. Note that the victim must be 
within range of the teeth and that normal facing considerations must be accounted for (for 
instance, snapping teeth in the back of a person's head can only attack victims that are 
behind the person). 
Snapping teeth can also be placed on a non-living object, such as a tree or a door. In 
such cases, the snapping teeth are invisible until they make an attack. The snapping teeth
will attack any victim that comes within 1 foot; they attack as a 4 HD monster, and each 
successful hit causes 1-4 hit points of damage. These attacks are automatic and are not 
controlled by the caster. Attacks cannot be directed against the snapping teeth, but dispel 
magic causes them to vanish. 
The material component for this spell is a tooth from any carnivorous animal, such as 
a wolf, shark, or serpent. 

Solvent of Corrosion
(Conjuration/Summoning, Alchemy)
Range: 10 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: 1/2
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: Medium (1 hit) acid
 large olfactory
This spell conjures a corrosive, acidic slime of horrid strength on one surface or 
creature within the spell’s range. Up to one square foot of surface area per caster level 
can be affected, so a 5th-level caster can affect 5 square feet—enough to create a 2-foot 
by 3-foot hole in a door or wall, or thoroughly drench a man-sized creature. The acid eats 
through 6 inches of wood, leather, or bone, 4 inches of stone, or 1 inch of metal each 
round. Against monsters composed of stone, metal, or wood, the solvent inflicts 1d3 
points of damage per caster level per square foot affected in the first round, 1d2 per caster 
level in the second round, and 1 per two caster levels in the third and final round. 
Therefore, a 10th-level wizard who strikes a treant with solvent of corrosion inflicts 
10d3, then 10d2, and finally 5 points of damage. Each round, the victim is allowed a 
saving throw vs. spell for half damage.
Against flesh, the solvent is much less effective; it is caustic and burns painfully, 
inflicting 1 point of damage per caster level in the first round, but no further damage in 
the second or third round. However, the burning in the following rounds does inflict a –2 
penalty to the victim’s attacks while the solvent is active. The solvent is extremely likely 
to cause extensive damage to the victim’s armor and equipment; item saving throws vs. 
acid may apply at the DM’s discretion. If the armor or equipment is magical in nature, 
then the saving throw is made with the usual bonuses allowed to the magical item.
The great alchemist Vandarien developed his solvent to dissolve iron grates, stone 
and woodwork traps, and other such hazards. The solvent’s effectiveness against mineral 
or wood-based creatures was a mere side effect of his research. The material component 
of this spell is a mixture of vinegar, water, and a drop of black dragon acid.

 Summon Animal Spirit
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: d8
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: Medium (1 hit) 
 slashing
This spell summons a minor spirit or entity to the caster’s aid. Clerics usually 
summon minor elementals of some kind, while shamans typically conjure an animal spirit 
or spirit of nature. Regardless of the spirit’s origin, it appears as a ghostly beast of some 
kind—wolves, bears, tigers, or lions are most common. The animal spirit obeys the 
mental commands of the priest, attacking his enemies or performing any other task that it 
could reasonably accomplish. The creature is incorporeal and cannot handle or 
manipulate objects of any kind, but it can see and hear as a normal animal of its archetype 
and could be used to scout a dangerous area or act as a distraction of some kind.
In combat, the animal spirit has the following statistics: MV 24; AC 4; THAC0 
15; Dmg 2d4. It can only be injured by magical weapons and can strike monsters hit only 
by +1 or better weapons. The spirit has a number of hit points equal to 10 plus the 
caster’s level, so a 6th-level priest conjures a animal spirit with 16 hit points. The 
creature is not affected by charm, sleep, hold, or other mind-affecting spells and suffers 
no damage from cold-based attacks. However, it is vulnerable to dispel magic or turning 
as an undead monster of the caster’s Hit Dice. If the animal spirit is turned, destroyed, or 
dispelled, the priest who summoned it must make a saving throw vs. spell or be stunned 
for 1d4 rounds.
Because the spirit is intelligent and free-willed under the caster’s direction, the 
priest need not concentrate in order to direct its attacks—an animal spirit could be 
ordered to attack a spellcaster in the back of an enemy party, while the cleric waded into 
hand-to-hand combat. The animal spirit makes use of flank or rear attacks when it can 
and gains any normal combat bonuses that a living creature in its position would be 
entitled to. The priest enjoys instantaneous, silent communication with the animal spirit 
and can order it to stop attacking, to change its target, or to undertake almost any 
conceivable action desired. However, the spirit must remain within the spell’s range; if it 
is ever more than 10 yards per caster level away from the priest, it dissipates harmlessly.
The material component is a small whistle carved from a bone taken from the 
appropriate type of animal.

 Spectral Force
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 1 yd./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 40-ft. cube + Saving Throw: Special
10-ft. cube/level
The spectral force spell creates an illusion in which sound, smell, and thermal illusions
are included. It is otherwise similar to the improved phantasmal force spell. The spell
lasts for three rounds after concentration ceases.

 Spirit Armor (Necromancy) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: Special
This spell allows the wizard to surround himself with a portion of his own life 
essence, which takes the form of a shimmering aura. The spirit armor offers protection 
equivalent to splint mail (AC 4) and grants the wizard a +3 bonus to saving throws vs. 
magical attacks. The spirit armor's effects are not cumulative with other types of armor 
or magical protection, but Dexterity bonuses apply.
The spirit armor is effective against magical and nonmagical weapons and attacks. It 
does not hinder movement or add weight or encumbrance. It does not interfere with 
spellcasting.
When the spell ends, the aura dissipates and the caster temporarily loses a bit of his 
life essence, suffering 2d3 points of damage unless he succeeds at a saving throw vs. 
spell. No damage is sustained if the save is successful. The hit points lost can be regained 
only through magical healing. 

 Squaring the Circle (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None 
Squaring the circle allows a wizard to alter the shape of the area of effect of one spell 
of 1st- through 5th-level spells. The spell to be affected must be cast within the duration 
of the squaring the circle spell.
Square or cubic areas of effect can be transformed into circular or spherical areas of 
effect. Circular or spherical areas of effect can likewise be transformed into square or 
cubic areas of effect. In both cases, the length of a side of a square area is equated to the 
diameter of a circular or spherical area.
Alternatively, a square or cubic area can be transformed into a rectangle. The 
rectangle cannot cover more or less square footage than the standard square area of the 
spell.
Similarly, a circular or spherical area can be transformed into an oval or egg shape. 
The area covered by the oval or egg shape cannot cover more or less square footage than 
the original area of the spell.
The material component is a small pendant of any precious metal with a circle 
fashioned inside a square. 

 Suggestion
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, M
Duration: 1 hr. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast by the wizard, he influences the actions of the chosen recipient
by the utterance of a few words--phrases or a sentence or two--suggesting a course of
action desirable to the spellcaster. The creature to be influenced must, of course, be able
to understand the wizard's suggestion--it must be spoken in a language that the spell
recipient understands.
The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the action sound
reasonable; asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or
do some other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect of the spell.
However, a suggestion that a pool of acid was actually pure water and that a quick dip
would be refreshing is another matter. Urging a red dragon to stop attacking the wizard's
party so that the dragon and party could jointly loot a rich treasure elsewhere is likewise a
reasonable use of the spell's power.
The course of action of a suggestion can continue in effect for a considerable duration,
such as in the case of the red dragon mentioned above. Conditions that will trigger a
special action can also be specified; if the condition is not met before the spell expires,
the action will not be performed. If the target successfully rolls its saving throw, the spell
has no effect. Note that a very reasonable suggestion causes the saving throw to be made
with a penalty (such as -1, -2, etc.) at the discretion of the DM. Undead are not subject to
suggestion.
The material components of this spell are a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil.

 Tongues
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 0 Components: V, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to speak and understand additional languages, whether
they are racial tongues or regional dialects. This does not enable the caster to speak with
animals. The spell enables the caster to be understood by all creatures of that type within
hearing distance, usually 60 feet. This spell does not predispose the subject toward the
caster in any way.
The wizard can speak one additional tongue for every three levels of experience. The
reverse of the spell cancels the effect of the tongues spell or confuses verbal
communication of any sort within the area of effect.
The material component is a small clay model of a ziggurat, which shatters when the
spell is pronounced.

Unfailing Premonition
(Divination)
Sphere: Time
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn + 2 rds./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By anticipating possible futures and outcomes of the caster’s actions, this spell 
provides the character with a temporary sixth sense or feel for danger. The spell operates 
on a subconscious level, and the caster receives strong intuitive impulses when he 
contemplates courses of action that may bring immediate physical injury or harm to him. 
For example, if the priest was about to open a trapped chest, the unfailing premonition 
would create a flash of insight or a gut feeling telling him that he shouldn’t do so. 
Similarly, opening a door that leads into the lair of a ferocious troll may also trigger the 
spell’s warning. Threatening a NPC who is likely to respond by drawing a weapon and 
attacking the PC would create a warning, but threatening a NPC who will get even with 
the priest in an hour or two will not trigger the premonition.
The unfailing premonition is also quite useful in combat, as long as the priest 
obeys his instincts and ducks, dodges, or withdraws when his subconscious tells him to. 
While the spell is in effect, the priest gains a +2 bonus to his Armor Class and saving 
throws, but in any given round there is a 25% chance that he will have to forego his 
intended action in order to obey the spell’s warning impulses.
The premonition only works on actions undertaken by the priest himself. If his 
companion is about to pull a mysterious lever that will drop a 10-ton block of stone on 
the priest, he receives no warning.

 Vampiric Touch
(Necromancy)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: One touch Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When the caster touches an opponent in melee with a successful attack roll, the
opponent loses 1d6 hit points for every two caster levels, to a maximum drain of 6d6
points for a 12th-level caster. The spell is expended when a successful touch is made or
one turn passes. The hit points are added to the caster's total, with any hit points over the
caster's normal total treated as temporary additional hit points. Any damage to the caster
is subtracted from the temporary hit points first. After one hour, any extra hit points
above the caster's normal total are lost. The creature originally losing hit points through
this spell can regain them by magical or normal healing. Undead creatures are unaffected
by this spell.

 Wall of Sound 
(Evocation)
Level: 3
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Concentration + 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
The wall of sound spell brings forth an immobile, shimmering curtain of violently 
disturbed air. The wall is made up of a number of 10'x10' sections equal to the caster's 
level. These sections can be arranged as desired as long as the resulting wall all lies in 
one plane ( i.e., it must be flat) that stands up vertically.
One side of the wall, selected by the caster, produces a voluminous roar that 
completely disrupts all communication, command words, verbal spell components, and 
any other form of organized sound within 30 feet. In addition, those within 10 feet are 
deafened for 1d4 turns if they fail a saving throw vs. spell.
On the other side of the wall, a loud roar can be heard, but communication is possible 
by shouting, and verbal components and command words function normally.
Anyone passing through the wall suffers 1d8 points of damage and is permanently 
deafened unless he rolls a successful saving throw vs. spell. Deafened creatures suffer a -
1 penalty to surprise rolls, a +1 penalty to their initiative rolls, and they are 20% likely to 
miscast spells with a verbal component.
A silence 15' radius spell cast by a higher level caster specifically for this purpose 
will dispel the wall; the wall otherwise destroys all silence spells that come into contact 
with it.
The material component is a piece of slate and a finger nail clipping.

 Wall of Water
(Invocation/Evocation, Elemental Water)
Range: 30 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Large visual Critical: None
This spell calls into being a curtain or field of water that remains intact and 
upright in defiance of gravity. The wall lasts as long as the wizard chooses to concentrate 
on maintaining it or one round per level if the wizard chooses not to concentrate on
holding it together. The caster may shape the wall of water in one of three ways:
A. Water Curtain. In this form, the wizard conjures one plane of water, 5 feet 
square and 1 foot thick, per experience level; for example, a 5th-level caster can create 
five 5-foot x 5-foot x 1-foot wall sections that would be enough to block an arched 
passageway 15 feet wide and 10 feet high with a curtain of water 1 foot thick. The 
curtain’s lower edge must rest upon the ground, but it need not be anchored on either 
side, and it remains cohesive and upright for the duration of the spell. Once raised, the 
wall cannot be moved.
B. Hemisphere. In this manifestation, the wall of water forms a dome 1 foot thick 
over the caster, with an inner radius equal to 3 feet plus 1 foot per caster level; a 7th-level 
caster could create a dome with a 10-foot radius. The wall must rest upon the ground. The 
dome is immobile.
C. Sphere. If cast underwater, the caster may shape the wall of water into a 
sphere 1 foot thick, with an inner radius equal to 3 feet plus 1 foot per caster level (no air 
is in the sphere). The sphere is centered on the caster and moves with him.
In any form, the wall of water has two primary effects. First of all, missile fire 
through the wall is next to impossible, suffering a –4 attack penalty for each foot of 
thickness as well as a –1 damage penalty for every two feet of thickness. Creatures gain a 
+1 bonus to saving throws against attack spells that must pass through the wall. If the 
spell allows no saving throw, none is granted by the wall of water. Secondly, physical 
passage through the wall is hindered; any creature trying to pass through must take one 
full round to do so and becomes soaked to the skin in the process.
The wall of water can be defeated or bypassed by a number of spells or effects. At 
the end of the spell’s duration, the water loses its cohesiveness and collapses, which may 
surprise those sheltering under the hemisphere or standing next to the curtain. Note that 
the water itself may be fresh water (25% chance), salt water (50% chance), or brackish 
(25% chance), although the sphere will always be composed of the water type that 
surrounds it. The material component is a vial full of blessed spring water.

 Water Breathing
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level + 1d4 hrs. Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
The recipient of a water breathing spell is able to breathe water freely for the duration
of the spell. The caster can touch more than one creature with a single casting; in this
case the duration is divided by the number of creatures touched. The reverse, air
breathing enables water-breathing creatures to comfortably survive in the atmosphere for
an equal duration.
The material component of the spell is a short reed or piece of straw.

 Watery Double (Conjuration/Summoning, Enchantment) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Special; max. 10 rounds
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One body of liquid
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell may be cast on any body of liquid as large as an ocean or as small as a 
glass of wine. The first creature whose reflection is cast on the surface of the liquid 
releases the spell. When the spell is triggered, the liquid immediately forms an exact 
three-dimensional image of the reflected creature. If more than one creature casts a 
reflection simultaneously, only one watery double forms. Each creature has an equal 
chance of being the victim of the spell (roll randomly).
The size of the watery double is restricted by the volume of fluid available. If the 
spell were cast on a full mug of ale, the double would form from the ale, becoming a 
mug-sized duplicate of the victim. The watery double will never exceed the actual size of 
the victim regardless of the size of the body of liquid.
When the spell is cast on the liquid, its duration is considered permanent until the 
power is released by a creature's reflection. The liquid will not evaporate until the spell is 
triggered. When the watery double forms, it remains animated for 1 round per experience 
level of the caster, to a maximum of 10 rounds.
The watery double attempts to touch the creature it has duplicated. It can affect only 
the creature that it resembles. It has the same THAC0 and current hit points as the 
creature it duplicates, but cannot cast spells or use any of the creature's magical items or 
special abilities. The watery double is AC 6 and its movement rate is double that of the 
victim. It may seep under doors and through cracks.
If the watery double succeeds in touching the creature, it merges with the individual, 
covering his entire body in a skin of liquid. The victim must attempt a saving throw. If 
successful, the creature has resisted the spell's effect and the watery double "dies," 
becoming normal fluid (and soaking the creature in the process). If the saving throw is 
failed, the watery double begins forcing its way into the victim's body, inflicting 1d8 
points of damage per round until it is destroyed.
The watery double dissipates if reduced to zero hit points or when the spell's duration 
expires. Striking the watery double while it is wrapped around its victim causes an equal 
amount of damage to the victim. Part water, lower water, and transmute water to dust
spells instantly destroy a watery double. 

 Weather Prediction
(Divination)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
By casting this spell, the priest can predict the weather conditions at his location 
for a period of time equal to one day per level. The caster becomes aware of the 
prevailing conditions, trends, and weather systems that may affect his present location. 
Temperature, wind speed and direction, cloud cover, and precipitation can all be 
predicted with 95% accuracy for the next day, less 10% for each day after that. In other 
words, the priest’s prediction is 95% accurate for the first day, 85% accurate for the 
second, 75% accurate for the third, and so on. In addition, magical or supernatural 
phenomena cannot be predicted.
Priests of powers concerned with weather may use this spell to determine the best 
time for certain ceremonies or observances. Other priests find weather prediction useful 
for planning journeys or selecting campsites.

 Wind Servant
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: 20 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate audio/tactile Critical: None
This spell allows the priest to exert fine control over air currents and winds, 
possibly extinguishing small fires or manipulating light objects as he sees fit within the 
spell’s range. Generally, the priest is limited to one discrete action per round since he 
must focus his wind servant tightly on any given task. The wind servant can affect objects 
or creatures weighing up to 1 pound per caster level, twice as much if the object is 
reasonably light or airy (a cloak, scroll, or haystack, for instance), or 10 times as much if 
the object is designed to be carried by the wind, such as a ship’s sail or a bird in flight.
If an object is within the spell’s weight limit, the caster may direct the wind 
servant to carry it along in gusts and air currents at a flying movement rate of 12 (E). If 
the object leaves the limits of the spell’s range, the wind servant fails, and the object 
drops or falls normally from that point. Flying creatures of size M or smaller can be 
forced to land or be driven away by use of the spell if they fall within the weight limit, or 
slowed by 50% if they exceed the weight limit. Employing the wind servant against an 
arrow or light missile adds a penalty of –4 to the attack roll.
In dusty, snowy, or sandy regions, the caster can instead use wind servant to 
create a vicious zephyr of stinging dust around an enemy. This zephyr inflicts damage 
equal to the opponent’s base AC less 2d6 points and creates a –2 penalty to the victim’s 
attack rolls. For example, an enemy in leather armor +1 (AC 7) would suffer 7 – 2d6 
damage if attacked by means of this spell. Note that any use of the wind servant requires 
the priest’s undivided attention; he can take no other actions while directing the spell.

 Wind Wall
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: wall, 10 x Saving Throw: Special
5 ft./level, 2 ft. wide
This spell brings forth an invisible vertical curtain of wind 2 feet thick and of
considerable strength--a strong breeze sufficient to blow away any bird smaller than an
eagle or tear papers and like materials from unsuspecting hands. (If in doubt, a saving
throw vs. spell determines whether the subject maintains its grasp.) Normal insects
cannot pass such a barrier. Loose materials, even cloth garments, fly upward when caught
in a wind wall. Arrows and bolts are deflected upward and miss, while sling stones and
other missiles under two pounds in weight receive a -4 penalty to a first shot and -2
penalties thereafter. Gases, most breath weapons, and creatures in gaseous form cannot
pass this wall, although it is no barrier to noncorporeal creatures.
The material components are a tiny fan and a feather of exotic origin.

 Wizard Sight (Divination) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
Upon completion of this spell, the caster's eyes glow blue and he is able to see the 
magical auras of spellcasters and enchanted objects. Only the auras of those things 
normally visible to the caster are seen; this spell does not grant the wizard the ability to 
see invisible objects, nor does it give him X-ray vision. This spell does not reveal the 
presence of good or evil or reveal alignment.
While wizard sight is in effect, a wizard is able to see whether someone is a 
spellcaster and whether that person is a priest or a wizard (and what type of specialist, if 
any). He can sense if a nonspellcaster has the potential to learn and cast wizard spells 
(e.g., whether a fighter will someday gain the ability to cast a spell).
Although a spellcaster's level cannot be discerned, the wizard can see the intensity of 
a spellcaster's aura and guess at the individual's magical power (dim, faint, moderate, 
strong, overwhelming). This can be extremely ambiguous even when a wizard has some 
method of comparison; the DM might announce that a subject's intensity is roughly 
equivalent to that of a companion, or he might announce that a subject's aura is the 
strongest the wizard has ever encountered.
An object's magical abilities cannot be discerned. The fact that it is magical and the 
type of magic (abjuration, alteration, etc.) are obvious. The wizard can see the intensity of 
an item's magical aura and guess at its power, but cannot tell whether a magical item is 
cursed. 

 Wraithform
(Alteration, Illusion)
Range: 0 Components: S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard and all of his gear become insubstantial. The caster
is subject only to magical or special attacks, including those by weapons of +1 or better,
or by creatures otherwise able to affect those struck only by magical weapons. Undead of
most sorts will ignore an individual in wraithform, believing him to be a wraith or
spectre, though a lich or special undead may save vs. spell with a -4 penalty to recognize
the spell.
The wizard can pass through small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks, with
all he wears or holds in his hands, as long as the spell persists. Note, however, that the
caster cannot fly without additional magic. No form of attack is possible when in
wraithform, except against creatures that exist on the Ethereal Plane, where all attacks
(both ways) are normal. A successful dispel magic spell forces the wizard in wraithform
back to normal form. The spellcaster can end the spell with a single word.
The material components for the spell are a bit of gauze and a wisp of smoke.