Spells work file Tier 2

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

Second-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 2 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Alter Self
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3d4 rds. + 2 rds./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard can alter his appearance and form--including
clothing and equipment--to appear taller or shorter; thin, fat, or in between; human,
humanoid, or any other generally man-shaped bipedal creature. The caster's body can
undergo a limited physical alteration and his size can be changed up to 50%. If the form
selected has wings, the wizard can actually fly, but at only one-third the speed of a true
creature of that type, and with a loss of two maneuverability classes (to a minimum of E).
If the form has gills, the caster can breathe under water as long as the spell lasts.
However, the caster does not gain any multiple attack routines or additional damage
allowed to an assumed form.
The caster's attack rolls, Armor Class, and saving throws do not change. The spell does
not confer special abilities, attack forms, or defenses. Once the new form is chosen, it
remains for the duration of the spell. The caster can change back into his own form at
will; this ends the spell immediately. A caster who is slain automatically returns to his
normal form.

 Astral Awareness
(Divination)
Sphere: Astral
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This divination attunes the caster’s perceptions to the silver void of the Astral 
Plane or the misty grayness of the Ethereal Plane. While the spell is in effect, the caster 
automatically notes the approach of all kinds of astral or ethereal phenomena, including 
shifting conduits, the psychic wind, ether cyclones, demiplanes and debris, color pools, 
and curtains of vaporous color. The character has a 90% chance to detect a color pool 
from its invisible side and a 5% chance per level to determine which plane a curtain or 
pool leads to simply by studying its color.
In addition to his awareness of physical phenomena, the caster gains a +2 bonus 
to surprise checks against astral or ethereal monsters. He also has a 5% chance per level 
to detect the threat of creatures whose gaze extends into the Ethereal (basilisks, for 
instance) before he enters the range of the monster’s gaze weapon.

 Bind
(Enchantment)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 50 ft. + 5 ft./level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is employed, the wizard can command any nonliving ropelike object,
including string, yarn, cord, line, rope, or even a cable. The spell affects 50 feet of normal
rope (with a 1 inch diameter), plus 5 feet per caster level. This length is reduced by 50%
for every additional inch of thickness and increased by 50% for each half-inch less. The
possible commands are Coil (form a neat, coiled stack), Coil & Knot, Loop, Loop &
Knot, Tie & Knot, and the reverses of all of the above (Uncoil, etc.). One command can
be given each round.
The rope can only enwrap a creature or an object within 1 foot of it--it does not snake
outward--so it must be thrown or hurled near the intended target. Note that the rope itself,
and any knots tied in it, are not magical. A typical rope might be AC 6 and take 4 points
of slashing damage before breaking. The rope does not inflict damage of any type, but it
can be used as a trip line or to entangle a single opponent who fails a saving throw vs.
spell.

 Blindness
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. + 10 yds./level Component: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The blindness spell causes the victim to become blind, able to see only a grayness
before its eyes. Various cure spells will not remove this effect, and only a dispel magic or
the spellcaster can do away with the blindness if the creature fails its initial saving throw
vs. spell. A blinded creature suffers a -4 penalty to its attack rolls, and its opponents gain
a +4 bonus to their attack rolls.

 Blur
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
When a blur spell is cast, the wizard causes the outline of his form to become blurred,
shifting and wavering. This distortion causes all missile and melee combat attacks against
the caster to be made with -4 penalties on the first attempt and -2 penalties on all
successive attacks. It also grants the wizard a +1 bonus to his saving throw for any direct
magical attack. A detect invisibility spell will not counter this effect, but the 5th-level
priest spell true seeing and similar magic will.

Cat’s Grace
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small tactile Critical: None
Just as a strength spell can increase a subject’s physical power for a time, cat’s 
grace can enhance a subject’s Dexterity. All abilities and skills that are Dexterity-based 
may be affected by an enhanced Dexterity score, including a subject’s reaction 
adjustment, missile attack adjustment, defensive adjustment, Dexterity-based proficiency 
scores, and adjustments to thief abilities. The exact amount of Dexterity gained depends 
on the subject’s class; multi-classed characters use the most favorable die.
Class Dexterity Gain
Rogue 1d8 points
Warrior 1d6 points
Wizard 1d6 points
Priest 1d4 points
The spell cannot confer a Dexterity score of 20 or more, and it is not cumulative 
with any other Dexterity-enhancing magical or psionic power. Subjects without Dexterity 
scores gain a –1 bonus to AC and a +1 to attack rolls with missiles for the duration of the 
spell. The material component for this spell is a few whiskers from an elven cat.

 Chaos Ward
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Chaos
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
By using this spell, the priest can create a shimmering aura of whirling light that 
surrounds the chosen creature. This protective aura makes the spell recipient more 
difficult to hit in hand-to-hand combat by providing a –1 bonus to the subject’s Armor 
Class. Against missile attacks or ranged spells aimed directly at the recipient, the chaos 
ward is even more effective since it provides a –2 bonus to Armor Class and a +2 bonus 
to any saving throws required. In addition, there is a chance that missile attacks or 
directed spells may be deflected or reflected by the chaotic energy of the shield, as shown 
below:

d100 *   | Effect
01–85    |  No unusual effect, subject gains normal benefits of chaos ward
86–95    |  Spell or attack automatically defeated
96–99    |  Spell or attack ricochets, affecting a random creature within 30 feet—normal attack roll or saving throw needs to be rolled for the random creature to be affected
100+     |  Spell or attack reflected back at originator, normal attack roll or saving throw applies

* Add the caster’s level to the d% roll.
In order to qualify as a spell aimed directly at the recipient, a spell must affect 
only the subject in question; a spell such as hold person or sleep that happens to include 
the subject in its area of effect does not count as a directed spell and does not trigger the 
chaos ward. The material component is a playing card used by a rogue of chaotic 
alignment.

 Chaos Shield* (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d10 rounds+2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: Special
Following the discovery of wild magic came the discovery of wild surges and the 
personal danger such surges create. After several wild mages destroyed themselves by 
rather spectacular means (or suffered very odd side effects), the chaos shield was created 
as protection from these surges.
This spell imbues the wild mage with special protection against the effects of wild 
surges. It protects only against wild surges caused by the caster's own spells, not from the 
effects of another mage's wild surges.
When a wild surge affects a caster protected by chaos shield, he is allowed a saving 
throw vs. magic. If the saving throw is successful, the effect of the surge on the caster is 
negated. If the saving throw is failed, the caster is affected normally by the surge. The 
spell does not protect against wild surges that might be caused by its own casting.
The chaos shield protects only the caster and does not negate the effects of a wild 
surge for other characters who might be in the area of effect. The caster cannot 
voluntarily cancel the protection once he has learned the nature of a wild surge; the chaos 
shield protects from both good and harmful effects. Thus, if a wild surge resulted in a 
heal spell for all characters within 10 feet of the caster, the protected caster might not 
benefit, while all others in the radius would be healed.
The spell remains in effect until it negates a wild surge or the spell duration expires. 

 Choke (Necromancy, Conjuration/Summoning) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: 1/2
By means of choke, the caster causes a pair of ghostly hands to appear around the 
throat of a single victim. The victim must be a human, demihuman, or humanoid, and 
must be within 30 yards of the caster. The hands will choke and strangle the affected 
victim for the duration of the spell; each round, the victim suffers 1-4 hit points of 
damage from the choking hands. If the victim makes a successful saving throw, he suffers 
half-damage each round. 
Choke can be negated by dispel magic or a similar spell; the victim cannot wrench the 
ethereal hands away from his neck. The victim makes all attack rolls at a -2 penalty while 
affected by choke. 
The material component for this spell is a handkerchief or similarly-sized piece of 
cloth that has been tied in a knot

 Continual Light
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 60-ft. radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell is similar to a light spell, except that it is as bright as full daylight and lasts
until negated by magical darkness or by a dispel magic spell. Creatures who suffer
penalties in bright light suffer them in this spell's area of effect. As with the light spell, it
can be cast into the air, onto an object, or at a creature. When cast at a creature, the target
gets a saving throw vs. spell; success indicates that the spell affects the space about 1 foot
behind the creature instead. Note that this spell can also blind a creature if it is
successfully cast upon the creature's visual organs, reducing its attack rolls, saving
throws, and Armor Class by 4. If the spell is cast on a small object that is then placed in a
light-proof covering, the spell's effects are blocked until the covering is removed.
A continual light brought into an area of magical darkness (or vice versa) is
temporarily negated so that the otherwise prevailing light conditions exist in the
overlapping areas of effect. A direct casting of continual light against a similar or weaker
magical darkness cancels both.
This spell eventually consumes the material it is cast upon, but the process takes far
longer than the time in the typical campaign. Extremely hard and expensive materials can
last hundreds or even thousands of years.

 Cure Moderate Wounds
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: d8
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: Medium (1 hit)
wounding when reversed
Somewhat less common than the well-known cure light wounds and cure serious 
wounds, this healing spell was created by a priest who found that his heroic companions 
required his skill at doctoring more than his advice and wisdom. By laying his hand on 
the subject’s body, the priest can heal 1d10+1 points of damage. Noncorporeal, 
nonliving, or extraplanar creatures cannot be healed by this spell. The reverse of this 
spell, cause moderate wounds, requires the priest to successfully touch the victim and 
inflicts 1d10+1 points of damage. (The knockdown and critical strike entries above are 
for spell’s reverse.)

 Darkness, 15' Radius
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 15-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell causes total, impenetrable darkness in the area of effect. Infravision is
useless. Neither normal nor magical light works unless a light or continual light spell is
used. In the former event, the darkness spell is negated by the light spell, and vice versa.
The material components of this spell are a bit of bat fur and either a drop of pitch or a
piece of coal.

 Deafness
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The deafness spell causes the recipient to become totally deaf and unable to hear any
sounds. The victim is allowed a saving throw vs. spell. An affected creature has a -1
penalty to its surprise rolls unless its other senses are unusually keen. Deafened
spellcasters have a 20% chance to miscast any spell with a verbal component. This
deafness can be done away with only by means of a dispel magic spell or by the
spellcaster.
The material component of this spell is beeswax.

 Death Recall (Necromancy, Divination)
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One corpse
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to visualize the final minutes of the life of any creature or 
person that died within the previous 24 hours. When the caster touches the subject's 
corpse, the caster goes into a trance. The caster then has a vision of the final 10 minutes 
of the subject's life as seen by the subject himself. The vision ends with the last scene the 
subject saw before he died, at which time the caster awakens from his trance and the spell 
is over. 
The material component for this spell is a fragment from a shattered mirror

 Deeppockets
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 12 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 garment Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the wizard to specially prepare a garment so as to hold far more than
it normally could. A finely sewn gown or robe of high-quality material (at least 50 gp
value) is fashioned so as to contain numerous hand-sized pockets. One dozen is the
minimum number. The deeppockets spell then enables these pockets to hold a total of 100
pounds (5 cubic feet in volume) as if it were only 10 pounds of weight. Furthermore,
there are no discernible bulges where the special pockets are. At the time of casting, the
caster can instead choose to have 10 pockets each holding 10 pounds (_ cubic foot
volume each). If the robe or like garment is sewn with 100 or more pockets (200 gp
minimum cost), 100 pockets can be created to contain one pound of weight and 1/6 cubic
foot volume each. Each special pocket is actually an extradimensional holding space.
If the spell duration expires while there is material within the enchanted pockets, or if a
successful dispel magic is cast upon the enchanted garment, all the material suddenly
appears around the wearer and immediately falls to the ground. The caster can also cause
all the pockets to empty with a single command.
In addition to the garment, which is reusable, the material components of this spell are
a tiny golden needle and a strip of fine cloth given a half-twist and fastened at the ends.

 Detect Evil
(Divination)
Reversible
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10 x 180 ft. Saving Throw: None
This spell discovers emanations of evil (or of good in the case of the reverse spell)
from any creature, object, or area. Character alignment is not revealed under most
circumstances: Characters who are strongly aligned, do not stray from their faith, and
who are at least 9th level might radiate good or evil if they are intent upon appropriate
actions. Powerful monsters, such as ki-rin, send forth emanations of evil or good, even if
polymorphed. Aligned undead radiate evil, for it is this power and negative force that
enables them to continue existing. An evilly cursed object or unholy water radiates evil,
but a hidden trap or an unintelligent viper does not. The degree of evil (faint, moderate,
strong, overwhelming) can be noted. Note that priests have a more powerful version of
this spell.
The spell has a path of detection 10 feet wide and 60 yards long in the direction in
which the wizard is facing. The wizard must concentrate--stop, have quiet, and intently
seek to detect the aura--for at least one round to receive a reading.

 Detect Invisibility
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rds./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10 yds./level Saving Throw: None
When the wizard casts a detect invisibility spell, he is able to see clearly any objects or
beings that are invisible, as well as any that are astral, ethereal, or out of phase. In
addition, it enables the wizard to detect hidden or concealed creatures (for example,
thieves in shadows, halflings in underbrush, and so on). It does not reveal the method of
concealment or invisibility, except in the case of astral travelers (where the silver cord
can be seen). It does not reveal illusions or enable the caster to see through physical
objects. Detection is a path 10 ft. wide along the wizard's line of sight to the range limit.
The material components of this spell are a pinch of talc and a small sprinkling of
powdered silver.

 Detect Life (Divination)
Range: 10 feet/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 5 rounds
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
By use of this spell, the caster can determine if a creature is alive, including creatures 
in a coma or trance, or under the influence of feign death. Any form of mental protection 
prevents the effectiveness of this spell, as does any thickness of metal. An inch of stone 
or wood is treated as 10 feet of open space for the purpose of determining whether the 
spell functions. 
The material components for this spell are a holy symbol and a hair from the head of a 
newborn animal

 Displace Self
(Alteration, Dimension)
Range: 0 Components: V, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
Emulating the natural ability of the displacer beast, this spell causes the caster to 
appear to be about two feet away from his true location. Any creature making a melee or 
missile attack against the caster automatically misses with his first attempt and suffers a –
2 penalty on all subsequent attack rolls. In addition, the wizard also gains a +2 bonus on 
saving throws for any spell or special attack aimed directly at him, not at any other 
characters or the area around him. The only spell that will reveal the caster’s true location 
is true seeing.
The material component for this spell is a small strip of leather made from 
displacer beast hide that is twisted into a loop.

 ESP
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 5 yds./level Saving Throw: None
(90 yds. maximum)
When an ESP spell is used, the caster is able to detect the surface thoughts of any
creatures in range--except for those of undead and creatures without minds (as we know
them). The ESP is stopped by 2 feet of rock, 2 inches of any metal other than lead, or a
thin sheet of lead foil.
The wizard employing the spell is able to probe the surface thoughts of one creature
per round, getting simple instinctual thoughts from lower order creatures. Probes can
continue on the same creature from round to round or can move on to other creatures.
The caster can use the spell to help determine if a creature lurks behind a door, for
example, but the ESP does not always reveal what sort of creature it is. If used as part of
a program of interrogation, an intelligent and wary subject receives an initial saving
throw. If successful, the creature successfully resists and the spell reveals no additional
information. If the saving throw is failed, the caster may learn additional information,
according to the DM's ruling. The creature's Wisdom adjustment applies, as may
additional bonuses up to +4, based on the sensitivity of the information sought.
The material component of this spell is a copper piece.

 Ethereal Barrier
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Astral, Wards
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Two 10-ft. Saving Throw: None
squares/level
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
The ethereal barrier is a defense against the passage of extradimensional 
creatures, including characters or monsters that are phased, ethereal, or travelling via 
dimension door or shadow walk. The priest creates an imperceptible barrier of 10 square 
feet per level that may be arranged in any fashion the priest desires. For example, a 
3rd-level character can ward six 10-foot by 10-foot surfaces, which would be sufficient to 
guard a 10-foot by 10-foot by 10-foot room (four walls, a ceiling, and a floor need to be 
protected.) Note that some monsters may be capable of abandoning their ethereal 
approach in order to simply enter the barred area on their own feet—the ethereal barrier 
only bars their passage as long as they are traveling in the Border Ethereal. Also, while 
this spell can’t be worn down by any form of attack, it does not bar teleportation, gates, 
or the passage of astral creatures.
Ethereal barrier may be cast as cooperative magic by several priests working 
together. As long as all involved characters can cast the spell, the areas of effect of each 
priest are added together. Total the levels of all priests involved and multiply by two to 
find the number of 10-foot by 10-foot squares that may be warded. For example, four 
6th-level casters (24 total levels) can ward 48 10-foot by 10-foot squares. The duration is 
determined by the highest level priest involved, plus 1 turn for each additional priest. In 
the previous example, this would be 6 turns plus 3 turns for three additional priests for a 
total of 9 turns.
This spell is also suitable for focus magic (see the spell focus in the Tome of 
Magic). The material component is a special compound of rare earths and lead worth at 
least 10 gp per application. One application is required for each 10-foot by 10-foot square 
to be warded.

 Filter (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10-foot radius sphere around creature touched
Saving throw: None
This spell creates an invisible globe of protection that filters out all noxious elements 
from poisonous vapors; therefore, a creature protected by filter takes no damage and 
suffers no penalties from poison gas of any kind, including those created magically (such 
as stinking cloud). The exceptions are poisonous vapors created by a dragon's breath 
weapon (such as the chlorine gas of a green dragon); in these cases, the creature protected 
by filter suffers half-damage. 
The material components for this spell are a strand of spider web and a scrap of cotton 
cloth approximately one inch square
 
 Flaming Sphere
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 3-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
A flaming sphere spell creates a burning globe of fire within 10 yards of the caster.
This sphere rolls in whichever direction the wizard points, at a rate of 30 feet per round.
It rolls over barriers less than 4 feet tall, such as furniture, low walls, etc. Flammable
substances are set afire by contact with the sphere. Creatures in contact with the globe
must successfully save vs. spell or suffer 2d4 points of fire damage. Those within 5 feet
of the sphere's surface must also save or suffer 1d4 points of heat damage. A successful
saving throw means no damage is suffered. The DM may adjust the saving throws if there
is little or no room to dodge the sphere.
The sphere moves as long as the spellcaster actively directs it; otherwise, it merely
stays at rest and burns. It can be extinguished by the same means as any normal fire of its
size. The surface of the sphere has a spongy, yielding consistency and so does not cause
damage except by its flame. It cannot push unwilling creatures aside or batter down large
obstacles.
The material components are a bit of tallow, a pinch of sulphur, and a dusting of
powdered iron.

 Fog Cloud
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The fog cloud spell can be cast in one of two ways, at the caster's option: as a large,
stationary bank of normal fog, or as a harmless fog that resembles the 5th-level wizard
spell cloudkill.
As a fog bank, this spell creates a fog of any size and shape up to a maximum 20-foot
cube per caster level. The fog obscures all sight, normal and infravision, beyond 2 feet.
As a cloudkill-like fog, this is a billowing mass of ghastly, yellowish-green vapors,
measuring 40 feet x 20 feet x 20 feet. This moves away from the caster at 10 feet per
round. The vapors are heavier than air and sink to the lowest level, even pouring down
sinkholes and den openings. Very thick vegetation breaks up the fog after it has moved
20 feet into the vegetation.
The only effect of either version is to obscure vision. A strong breeze will disperse
either effect in one round, while a moderate breeze will reduce the spell duration by 50%.
The spell cannot be cast under water.

 Fools' Gold
(Alteration, Illusion)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 10 cu. in./level Saving Throw: Special
Copper coins can temporarily be changed to gold pieces, or brass items turned to solid
gold, for the spell duration by means of this magic. The area of effect is 10 cubic inches
per level--i.e., a 1-inch x 1-inch x 10-inch volume or equivalent, equal to about 150 gold
coins. Any creature viewing the "gold" is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell, which can
be modified by the creature's Wisdom; for every level of the wizard, the creature must
subtract 1 from his dice roll. Thus, it is unlikely that fools' gold will be detected if created
by a high-level caster. If the "gold" is struck hard by an object of cold-wrought iron, there
is a slight chance it will revert to its natural state, depending on the material component
used to create the "gold." If a 25-gp citrine is powdered and sprinkled over the metal as
this spell is cast, the chance that cold iron will return it to its true nature is 30%; if a 50-
gp amber stone is powdered and used, the chance drops to 25%; if a 250-gp topaz is
powdered and used, the chance drops to 10%; and if a 500-gp oriental (corundum) topaz
is powdered and used, there is only a 1% chance that the cold iron will reveal that it is
fools' gold.

 Forget
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1-4 creatures Saving Throw: Neg.
in a 20-ft. cube
By means of this spell, the spellcaster causes creatures within the area of effect to
forget the events of the previous round (the one minute of time previous to the utterance
of the spell). For every three levels of experience of the spellcaster, another minute of
past time is forgotten. This does not negate charm, suggestion, geas, quest, or similar
spells, but it is possible that the being who placed such magic upon the recipient could be
forgotten. From one to four creatures can be affected, at the discretion of the caster. If
only one is to be affected, the recipient saves vs. spell with a -2 penalty; if two, they save
with -1 penalties; if three or four are to be affected, they save normally. All saving throws
are adjusted by Wisdom. A priest's heal or restoration spell, if specially cast for this
purpose, will restore the lost memories, as will a limited wish or wish, but no other means
will do so.

 Ghoul Touch (Necromancy)
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One person
Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is in effect, the caster's touch causes any single human, dwarf, gnome, 
half-elf, or halfling to become rigid for 3-8 (1d6 +2) rounds unless the victim makes a 
successful saving throw vs. paralyzation. Additionally, the paralyzed victim exudes a 
carrion stench in a 10-foot radius that causes retching and nausea. Those within this area 
who fail to save vs. poison will make their attacks with a -2 penalty until the spell reaches 
the end of its duration. 
The material component for this spell is a small scrap of cloth taken from the clothing 
of a ghoul or a pinch of earth from a ghoul's lair.

 Glitterdust
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 20 ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
This spell creates a cloud of glittering golden particles within the area of effect. Those
in the area must roll a successful saving throw vs. spell or be blinded (-4 penalties to
attack rolls, saving throws, and Armor Class) for 1d4+1 rounds. In addition, all within the
area are covered by the dust, which cannot be removed and continues to sparkle until it
fades. Note that this reveals invisible creatures. The dust fades in 1d4 rounds plus one
round per caster level. Thus, glitterdust cast by a 3rd-level wizard lasts for four to seven
rounds.
The material component is ground mica.

 Hornung's Baneful Deflector* (Evocation) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell partially surrounds the recipient in a shimmering, hemispherical field of 
force. The field is transparent and moves with the subject, forming a shell about one foot 
away from his body. The shell serves as a shield against all forms of individually targeted 
missile attacks (including magic missiles and other spells). The caster designates the 
position of the shell (protecting the front, rear, side, or top of the recipient). The spell 
does not protect against area effect spells or other attacks that strike several creatures at 
once.
Whenever an individual missile attack is directed at a protected creature, the baneful 
deflector activates. Instead of striking the target creature, the missile's target is 
determined randomly among all creatures within a 15-foot hemisphere of the protected 
creature, including the protected creature. The missile then changes course toward its new
target with normal chances to hit. If the new target is beyond the range of the missile, no 
target is hit. If the protected creature is struck, the spell immediately fails. If several 
people are protected by baneful deflector, a missile will change course several times 
before reaching its target.
The material component is a small prism that shatters when the spell is cast. 

 Hypnotic Pattern
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
When this spell is cast, the wizard creates a weaving, twisting pattern of subtle colors
in the air. This pattern causes any creature looking at it to become fascinated and stand
gazing at it as long as the spellcaster maintains the display, plus two rounds thereafter.
The spell can captivate a maximum of 24 levels, or Hit Dice, of creatures (for example,
24 creatures with 1 Hit Die each, 12 with 2 Hit Dice, etc.). All creatures affected must be
within the area of effect, and each is entitled to a saving throw vs. spell. A damageinflicting attack on an affected creature frees it from the spell immediately.
The wizard need not utter a sound, but he must gesture appropriately while holding a
glowing stick of incense or a crystal rod filled with phosphorescent material.

 Ice Knife (Evocation) 
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Neg
This spell fires a dagger of ice at the target. The caster makes a normal attack roll as if 
attacking with a missile weapon, factoring in the range from the attacker to the target (the 
ice knife has a long range of 30 yards, a medium range of 20 yards, and a short range of 
10 yards). A successful hit causes 2-8 (2d4) hit points of damage. If the ice knife misses 
its target, consult the rules for grenade-like missiles on pages 62-63 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide to determine where it lands. 
When an ice knife strikes a solid object or a creature, the knife shatters, releasing a 
wave of numbing cold. All creatures within a 5-foot radius must make a successful 
saving throw vs. paralyzation or suffer 1-4 hit points of cold damage and become numb 
for 1-3 rounds. Numbed creatures have their movement rates reduced by half and their 
chance to hit reduced by 2. Proximity to major sources of heat, such as a roaring bonfire, 
improves a creature's saving throw by +2. 
An ice knife that misses or is lost cannot be picked up by the caster (or anyone else) 
and thrown again. If the ice knife is touched, it instantly shatters, releasing a wave of cold 
as described above. If a lost ice knife is not touched, it melts away in a pool of water 1 
round after it was originally created; this melting occurs regardless of the environmental 
temperature. 
The material components for this spell are a drop of water from melted snow and a 
tiny silver dagger. 

 Improved Phantasmal Force
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 200 sq. ft. + Saving Throw: Special
50 sq. ft./level
Like the 1st-level phantasmal force spell, this spell creates the illusion of any object,
creature, or force, as long as it is within the spell's area of effect. The spellcaster can
maintain the illusion with minimal concentration; thus, he can move at half normal speed
(but not cast other spells). Some minor sounds are included in the effects of the spell, but
not understandable speech. Also, the improved phantasm continues for two rounds after
the wizard ceases to concentrate upon it.
The material component is a bit of fleece.

 Insatiable Thirst (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell instills in the victim an uncontrollable desire to drink. The victim is 
allowed a saving throw to avoid the effect. If the roll is failed, the creature must consume 
any potable liquids it can find (including magical potions, which might result in strange 
effects if potions are mixed). Although poisons are not considered potable, a victim may 
not realize that a liquid is poisonous. The victim will not consume a liquid he knows to be 
poisonous.
No matter how much the creature drinks, its magical thirst is not quenched until the 
spell ends. During this time, the creature can do nothing but drink or look for liquids to 
drink. Victims of this spell believe they are dying of thirst and (depending upon their 
nature) may be willing to kill for drinkable fluids. 

 Invisibility
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
This spell causes the creature touched to vanish from sight and be undetectable by
normal vision or even infravision. Of course, the invisible creature is not magically
silenced, and certain other conditions can render the creature detectable. Even allies
cannot see the invisible creature or his gear, unless these allies can normally see invisible
things or employ magic to do so. Items dropped or put down by the invisible creature
become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing or pouches worn by
the creature. Note, however, that light never becomes invisible, although a source of light
can become so (thus, the effect is that of a light with no visible source).
The spell remains in effect until it is magically broken or dispelled, until the wizard or
recipient cancels it, until the recipient attacks any creature, or until 24 hours have passed.
Thus, the invisible being can open doors, talk, eat, climb stairs, etc., but if he attacks, he
immediately becomes visible, although the invisibility enables him to attack first. Note
that the priest spells bless, chant, and prayer are not attacks for this purpose. All highly
Intelligent (Intelligence 13 or more) creatures with 10 or more Hit Dice or levels of
experience have a chance to detect invisible objects (they roll saving throws vs. spell;
success means they noticed the invisible object).
The material components of the invisibility spell are an eyelash and a bit of gum arabic,
the former encased in the latter.

 Iron Vigil
(Alteration)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 week + 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell allows the priest to ignore hunger, thirst, and extremes of climate for an 
extended period of time. While the spell is in effect, the priest requires no food or drink. 
He is effectively immune to exposure, dehydration, and heat or cold injury, since no 
naturally occurring climatic condition will cause him harm. (Lightning, floods, tornadoes, 
earthquakes, and other such hazardous phenomena can still cause physical injury, of 
course.)
During the iron vigil, the priest is able to ignore the need to sleep by choosing to 
meditate instead. While meditating, the priest can keep watch on his surroundings, but he 
suffers a +1 penalty to any surprise checks. If the character wishes to memorize spells, he 
must sleep normally.
At the vigil’s end, the priest must eat and drink; if no food or water is available, 
the character must make a Constitution check once every four hours at a cumulative –1 
penalty or fall into a coma and perish within 1d3 days if he receives no aid. He also 
requires at least four hours of rest for each day that he did not eat, drink, or sleep during 
his vigil.

 Irritation
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1-4 creatures in Saving Throw: Neg.
a 15-ft. radius
An irritation spell affects the epidermis of the subject creatures. Creatures with very
thick or insensitive skins (such as buffalo, elephants, scaled creatures, etc.) are basically
unaffected. There are two versions of the spell, either of which can be cast from the
standard preparation:
Itching. When cast, this causes each subject to feel an instant itching sensation on some
portion of its body. If one round is not immediately spent scratching the irritated area, the
creature is so affected that the next three rounds are spent squirming and twisting,
effectively worsening its Armor Class by 4 and its attack rolls by 2 during this time. Spell
preparations are ruined in the first round this spell is in effect, but not in the following
three rounds. Doing nothing but scratching the itch for a full round prevents the rest of
the effect. If cast at one creature, the saving throw has a -3 penalty; if cast at two
creatures, the saving throw has a -1 penalty; and if cast at three or four creatures, the
saving throw is normal.
Rash. When a rash is cast, the subject notices nothing for 1d4 rounds, but thereafter its
entire skin breaks out in red welts that itch. The rash persists until either a cure disease or
dispel magic spell is cast upon it. It lowers Charisma by 1 point per day for each of four
days (i.e., maximum Charisma loss is 4 points). After one week, Dexterity is lowered by
1 point also. Symptoms vanish immediately upon the removal of the rash, and all
statistics return to normal. This can be cast at one creature only, with a saving throw
penalty of -2.
The material component for this spell is a leaf from poison ivy, oak, or sumac.

 Knock
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 60 yds. Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 10 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
The knock spell opens stuck, barred, locked, held, or wizard-locked doors. It opens
secret doors, as well as locked or trick-opening boxes or chests. It also loosens welds,
shackles, or chains. If used to open a wizard-locked door, the spell does not remove the
former spell, but simply suspends its functioning for one turn. In all other cases, it
permanently opens locks or welds--although the former could be closed and locked again
later. It does not raise barred gates or similar impediments (such as a portcullis), nor does
it affect ropes, vines, and the like. Note that the effect is limited by the area; a 3rd-level
wizard can cast a knock spell on a door of 30 square feet or less (for example, a standard
4-ft. x 7-ft. door). Each spell can undo up to two means of preventing egress through a
portal. Thus if a door is locked, barred, and held, or triple locked, opening it requires two
knock spells. In all cases, the location of the door or item must be known--the spell
cannot be used against a wall in hopes of discovering a secret door.
The reverse spell, lock, closes and locks a door or similar closure, provided there is a
physical mechanism. It does not create a weld, but it locks physically operated locking
mechanisms, set bars, and so on, up to two functions. It cannot affect a portcullis.

 Know Alignment
(Divination)
Reversible
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature or Saving Throw: Neg.
object per 2 rds.
A know alignment spell enables the wizard to read the aura of a creature or an aligned
object (unaligned objects reveal nothing). The caster must remain stationary and
concentrate on the subject for two full rounds. A creature is allowed a saving throw vs.
spell and, if successful, the caster learns nothing about that particular creature from the
casting. If the caster concentrates on a creature or object for only one round, he can learn
only its alignment with respect to law and chaos. Certain magical devices negate the
know alignment spell.
The reverse, undetectable alignment, conceals the alignment of an object or creature
for 24 hours--even from a know alignment spell.

 Leomund's Trap
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 3 rds.
Area of Effect: Object touched Saving Throw: None
This false trap is designed to fool a thief or other character attempting to pilfer the
spellcaster's goods. The wizard places the spell upon any small mechanism or device,
such as a lock, hinge, hasp, screw-on cap, ratchet, etc. Any character able to detect traps,
or who uses any spell or device enabling trap detection, is 100% certain a real trap exists.
Of course, the spell is illusory and nothing happens if the trap is sprung; its primary
purpose is to frighten away thieves or make them waste precious time.
The material component of the spell is a piece of iron pyrite touched to the object to be
trapped while the object is sprinkled with a special dust requiring 200 gp to prepare. If
another Leomund's trap is within 50 feet when the spell is cast, the casting fails.

 Levitate
(Alteration)
Range: 20 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object Saving Throw: Neg.
When a levitate spell is cast, the wizard can place it upon his person, an object, or a
single creature, subject to a maximum weight limit of 100 pounds per level of experience
(for example, a 3rd-level wizard can levitate a maximum of 300 pounds). If the spell is
cast upon the wizard, he can move vertically up or down at a movement rate of 2 per
round. If cast upon an object or another creature, the wizard can levitate it at the same
speed, according to his command. This spell does not empower horizontal movement, but
the recipient could push along the face of a cliff, for example, to move laterally. The
spellcaster can cancel the spell as desired. If the subject of the spell is unwilling, or the
object is in the possession of a creature, a saving throw vs. spell is allowed to determine
if the levitate spell affects it.
Once cast, the spell requires no concentration, except when changing height. A
levitating creature attempting to use a missile weapon finds himself increasingly
unstable; the first attack has an attack roll penalty of -1, the second -2, the third -3, etc.,
up to a maximum of -5. A full round spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again
at -1. Lack of leverage makes it impossible to cock a medium or heavy crossbow.
The material component of this spell is either a small leather loop or a piece of golden
wire bent into a cup shape with a long shank on one end.

 Locate Object
(Divination)
Reversible
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 20 yds./level Saving Throw: None
This spell aids in locating a known or familiar object. The wizard casts the spell,
slowly turns, and senses when he is facing in the direction of the object to be located,
provided the object is within range (i.e., 60 yards for 3rd-level wizards, 80 yards for 4th,
100 yards for 5th, etc.). The spell can locate such objects as apparel, jewelry, furniture,
tools, weapons, or even a ladder or stairway. Note that attempting to find a specific item,
such as jewelry or a crown, requires an accurate mental image; if the image is not close
enough to the actual, the spell does not work. Desired but unique objects cannot be
located by this spell unless they are known by the caster. The spell is blocked by lead.
Creatures cannot be found by this spell.
The material component is a forked twig.
The reversal, obscure object, hides an object from location by spell, crystal ball, or
similar means for eight hours. Creatures cannot be affected by this spell. The material
component is a chameleon skin.

 Magic Mouth
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard imbues the chosen object with an enchanted mouth
that suddenly appears and speaks its message when a specified event occurs. The
message, which must be of 25 words or less, can be in any language known by the
spellcaster, and can be delivered over a period of one turn. The mouth cannot speak
magical spells or use command words. It does, however, move to the words articulated--
if it is placed upon a statue, the mouth of the statue would actually move and appear to
speak. Of course, the magic mouth can be placed upon a tree, rock, door, or any other
object, excluding intelligent members of the animal or vegetable kingdoms.
The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled, according to the command
of the spellcaster. Some examples are to speak "to the first creature that touches you," or
"to the first creature that passes within 30 feet." Commands can be as general or as
detailed as desired, although only visual and audible triggers can be used, such as the
following: "Speak only when a venerable female human carrying a sack of groat clusters
sits crosslegged within 1 foot." Such visual triggers can react to a character using the
disguise ability. Command range is 5 yards per level of the wizard, so a 6th-level wizard
can command the magic mouth to speak at a maximum encounter range of 30 yards
("Speak when a winged creature comes within 30 yards."). The spell lasts until the speak
command can be fulfilled; thus, the spell duration is variable. A magic mouth cannot
distinguish invisible creatures, alignments, level, Hit Dice, or class, except by external
garb. If desired, the effect can be keyed to a specific noise or spoken word.
The material component of this spell is a small bit of honeycomb.

 Maximilian's Earthen Grasp (Evocation) 
Range: 10 yards+10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes an arm made of compacted soil to rise from the ground. The spell 
must be cast on open turf, such as a grassy field or a dirt floor.
The earthen arm and hand (which are about the same size as a normal human limb) 
arise from the ground beneath one creature targeted by the caster. The hand attempts to 
grasp the creature's leg. The victim must attempt a saving throw; if successful, the hand 
sinks into the ground. Each round thereafter (until the spell ends or the target moves out 
of spell range), the hand has a 5% chance per level of the caster of reappearing beneath 
the targeted creature, at which time another saving throw is required.
If a saving throw is missed, the earthen limb firmly grasps and holds the creature in 
place. An individual held by the hand suffers a movement rate of 0, Armor Class penalty 
of -2, and attack penalty of -2. All Dexterity combat bonuses are negated. The hand 
causes no physical damage to the victim.
The arm may be attacked by any creature, including the arm's victim. The arm has
 AC 5 and hit points equal to double the caster's maximum hit points. For example, a 
caster who normally has 15 hit points can create an earthen hand with 30 hit points. The 
maximum number of hit points that an earthen hand may have is 40. When the arm's hit 
points are reduced to zero or when the spell duration ends, the hand crumbles.
The material component is a miniature hand sculpted from clay, which crumbles to 
dust when the spell is cast. 

 Melf's Acid Arrow
(Conjuration)
Range: 180 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 target Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, the wizard creates a magical arrow that speeds to its target as if
fired from the bow of a fighter of the same level as the wizard. No modifiers for range,
nonproficiency, or specialization are used. The arrow has no attack or damage bonus, but
it inflicts 2d4 points of acid damage (with saving throws for items on the target); there is
no splash damage. For every three levels that the caster has achieved, the acid, unless
somehow neutralized, lasts for another round, inflicting another 2d4 points of damage
each round. So at 3rd-5th level, the acid lasts two rounds; at 6th-8th level, the acid lasts
for three rounds, etc.
The material components of the spell are a dart, powdered rhubarb leaf, and an adder's
stomach.

 Mirror Image
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3 rds./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 6-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When a mirror image spell is invoked, the spellcaster causes from two to eight exact
duplicates of himself to come into being around him. These images do exactly what the
wizard does. Since the spell causes a blurring and slight distortion when it is cast, it is
impossible for opponents to be certain which are the illusions and which is the actual
wizard. When an image is struck by a melee or missile attack, magical or otherwise, it
disappears, but any other existing images remain intact until struck. The images seem to
shift from round to round, so that if the actual wizard is struck during one round, he
cannot be picked out from among his images the next. To determine the number of
images that appear, roll 1d4 and add 1 for every three levels of experience the wizard has
achieved, to a maximum of eight images. At the end of the spell duration, all surviving
images wink out.

 Misdirection
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hrs. Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the wizard misdirects the information from a detection spell
(detect charm, detect evil, detect invisibility, detect lie, detect magic, detect snares and
pits, etc.). While the detection spell functions, it indicates the wrong area, creature, or the
opposite of the truth with respect to detect evil or detect lie. The wizard directs the spell
effect upon the object of the detection spell. If the caster of the detection spell fails his
saving throw vs. spell, the misdirection takes place. Note that this spell does not affect
other types of divination (know alignment, augury, ESP, clairvoyance, etc.).

 Moon Rune
(Alteration, Geometry, Artifice)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Up to 1 sq. ft. Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
By using this spell, the wizard can create an invisible mark or rune on any 
surface. This mark remains invisible until conditions specified at the time of the casting 
are met. For example, the wizard could specify that the runes are only visible by the light 
of the moon or by the light of a moon of a certain phase (half, full, etc.), when viewed by 
an elf, at sunset or sunrise, when viewed by a wizard, when the caster is present, and so 
on. The spell cannot be used to transcribe magical runes, signs, glyphs, or symbols, but as 
many as seven letters or marks can be drawn. Unlike a magic mouth spell, a moon rune is 
permanent and will appear any time its conditions are met.
In addition to appearing when the proper conditions are met, a moon rune also 
becomes visible if a detect magic, detect invisibility, true seeing, or other such spell or 
effect is used on it. A read magic spell will reveal the maker’s words, if any. Moon rune 
cannot be cast on a living creature. The mark cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed 
by the caster or by an erase spell.
A moon rune requires a special mixture of pigment including mithral filings or 
powder worth at least 100 gp.

 Nahal's Nonsensical Nullifier* (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d6 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: None
This spell scrambles the aura of the affected creature, giving random results to know 
alignment, detect evil, and detect lie spells cast on that creature.
When a protected creature is the focus of one of these divinations, the information 
gained is randomly determined. Thus, if know alignment is used against a chaotic evil 
creature protected by the nonsensical nullifier, the response could be any alignment 
combination. If two characters both use the same divination on the same target, two 
random results are generated.
A new random result is generated each round; thus, continued observation of a 
protected creature usually results in different answers. The table below should be used to 
determine the random alignment. 

D10 Roll Alignment 
 1 Lawful Good 
 2 Lawful Neutral 
 3 Lawful Evil 
 4 Neutral Good 
 5 Neutral 
 6 Neutral Evil 
 7 Chaotic Good 
 8 Chaotic Evil 
 9 Chaotic Neutral 
 10 No alignment 

The material component is a small amount of egg yolk smeared into the hair of the 
recipient. 

 Past Life (Divination) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
By touching the remains of a dead creature, this spell allows a caster to gain a mental 
image of the deceased's former appearance. The remains can be of any age and only a 
tiny fragment is required, such as a bone splinter or a strand of hair.
When cast by a wizard of at least 7th level, he is able to view the final minute of the 
subject's life from the subject's point of view.
When cast by a wizard of at least 9th level, a personal possession (a ring, a favorite 
walking stick, etc.) may be substituted for bodily remains.

 Protection From Cantrips
(Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 5 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: Creature or Saving Throw: None
object touched
By casting this spell, the wizard receives immunity to the effects of cantrips cast by
other wizards, apprentices, or creatures that use the cantrip spell. The spell protects the
caster, or one item or person that he touches (such as a spell book or a drawer containing
spell components). Any cantrip cast against the protected person or item dissipates with
an audible popping sound. This spell is often used by a wizard who has mischievous
apprentices, or one who wishes apprentices to clean or shine an area using elbow grease
rather than magic. Any unwilling target of this spell must be touched (via an attack roll)
and is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to escape the effect.

 Protection From Paralysis (Abjuration) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
The recipient of this spell receives total immunity to magical paralysis. Spells such as 
hold person and slow have no effect on the individual. This spell also provides protection 
against the paralysis attacks of monsters (a ghoul's touch, for example). This spell offers 
no protection against physical damage.
The material component is a bit of cloth taken from a priest's robes. 

 Protection from Poison
(Abjuration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
With this abjuration spell, the wizard provides a protective barrier similar to that 
created by the spells protection from evil or protection from vermin, warding the recipient 
against creatures that possess venom or poison of some kind. Poisonous monsters or 
poison-using characters of 4 or less Hit Dice or levels are prevented from making 
physical contact with the spell recipient, while venomous creatures of 4+1 Hit Dice or 
poison-using characters of five levels or more suffer a –2 penalty on their attack rolls 
against the protected character. Only injected or contact poisons from natural or innate 
sources (such as compounds made from plants or the venom from a snake) in a position 
to possibly injure the character are protected against; a thief carrying a vial of ingestive 
poison in his pouch is not counted as a venomous character while a character that is 
brandishing a poisoned short sword is counted as venomous. The spell recipient can still 
be poisoned by a spitting attack or a thrown dagger smeared with poison.
If the spell recipient attacks a creature he has been warded against or uses the 
resistance of the spell’s aura to force his antagonist to give ground, the spell ends. 
Regrettably, reaching out to drink from a poisoned cup dispels the effect, so this spell 
offers no protection against ingested poisons. The spell functions normally if cast upon a 
poison-using creature or character.


 Pyrotechnics
(Alteration)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 fire source Saving Throw: None
A pyrotechnics spell draws on an existing fire source to produce one of two effects, at
the option of the caster. First, it can produce a flashing and fiery burst of glowing,
colored aerial fireworks that lasts one round. This effect temporarily blinds those
creatures in, under, or within 120 feet of the area and that have an unobstructed line of
sight to the burst. Creatures viewing this are blinded for 1d4+1 rounds unless they
successfully save vs. spell. The fireworks fill a volume 10 times greater than that of the
original fire source.
This spell can also cause a thick, writhing stream of smoke to arise from the source and
form a choking cloud that lasts for one round per experience level of the caster. This
covers a roughly spherical volume from the ground or floor up (or conforming to the
shape of a confined area) that totally obscures vision beyond 2 feet. The smoke fills a
volume 100 times that of the fire source. All within the cloud must roll successful saving
throws vs. spell or suffer -2 penalties to all combat rolls and Armor Class.
The spell uses one fire source within a 20-foot cube, which is immediately
extinguished. An extremely large fire used as a source might be only partially
extinguished. Magical fires are not extinguished, although a fire-based creature (such as a
fire elemental) used as a source suffers 1 point of damage per caster level.

 Ray of Enfeeblement
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds. + 5 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of a ray of enfeeblement, a wizard weakens an opponent, reducing its
Strength and thereby the attacks that rely upon it. Humans, demihumans, and humanoids
of man-size or less are reduced to an effective Strength of 5, losing all Strength bonuses
and suffering an attack roll penalty of -2 and a -1 penalty to damage. Other creatures
suffer a penalty of -2 on attack rolls. Furthermore, they have a -1 penalty for each die of
damage they inflict. (But no damage roll can inflict less than 1 point per die of damage.)
Your DM will determine any other effects appropriate to the affected creature. If the
target creature makes its saving throw, the spell has no effect. This spell does not affect
combat bonuses due to magical items, and those conferring increased Strength function
normally.

 Resist Acid and Corrosion
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell provides a subject with a better resistance to acid, corrosives, and 
caustic substances of all kinds. Mild corrosives cannot harm the subject at all, although 
they can still damage his gear. More intense acids and corrosives (black dragon breath, 
Melf’s acid arrow, and the natural attacks of various puddings, oozes, slimes, and jellies) 
inflict only half the normal damage on the protected character. If the attack requires a 
saving throw, the subject gains a +3 bonus, sustaining half damage with a failed save or 
one-quarter damage with a successful saving throw.

 Restore Strength
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
This spell removes unnatural weakness, debilitation, or exhaustion from the 
creature touched and restores him to his normal strength and stamina. It is useful in 
countering the effects of chill touch, ray of enfeeblement, ray of fatigue, the touch of a 
shadow or roper, and any similar spell or effect. Only temporary ability score losses may 
be alleviated by this spell; if a character suffers an incapacitating, physical injury, restore 
strength cannot help him. Also, loss of strength or stamina from purely natural causes 
such as exposure, disease, or exertion is not repaired by restore strength. The duration is 
permanent in that the subject remains at his maximum strength and endurance only until 
he is drained (or exerts himself) again.

 Ride the Wind (Alteration) 
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell allows creatures targeted by the caster to become virtually weightless and 
be lifted upon the wind. Affected creatures can control their altitude by rising or 
descending at a movement rate of 12, but are at the mercy of the wind for speed and 
direction. Recipients can stop forward movement only by grasping something to anchor 
them in place. If no wind is present, this spell has no effect.
Unwilling targets are allowed a saving throw to resist the effect.
Each subject and his equipment must weigh less than 100 pounds per level of the 
caster. Thus, a 6th-level wizard could affect six creatures each weighing 600lbs. or less. 
This spell may be cast only on living creatures.
The material components are a small handful of straw and a dry leaf. 

 Rope Trick
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns/level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast upon a piece of rope from 5 to 30 feet long, one end of the rope
rises into the air until the whole rope hangs perpendicular, as if affixed at the upper end.
The upper end is, in fact, fastened to an extradimensional space. The spellcaster and up to
seven others can climb up the rope and disappear into this place of safety where no
creature can find them. The rope can be taken into the extradimensional space if fewer
than eight persons have climbed it; otherwise, it simply stays hanging in the air
(extremely strong creatures might be able to remove it, at the DM's option). Spells cannot
be cast across the interdimensional interface, nor can area effects cross it. Those in the
extradimensional space can see out of it as if there were a 3-foot x 5-foot window
centered on the rope. The persons in the extradimensional space must climb down prior
to the end of the spell, or they are dropped from the height at which they entered the
extradimensional space. The rope can be climbed by only one person at a time. Note that
the rope trick spell enables climbers to reach a normal place if they do not climb all the
way to the extradimensional space. Also note that creating or taking extradimensional
spaces into an existing extradimensional space is hazardous.
The material components of this spell are powdered corn extract and a twisted loop of
parchment.

 Scare
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 30 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 15-foot radius Saving Throw: Special
This spell causes creatures with fewer than 6 Hit Dice or levels of experience to fall
into fits of trembling and shaking. The frightened creatures have a -2 reaction adjustment
and may drop items held if encumbered. If cornered, they fight, but with -1 penalties to
attack rolls, damage rolls, and saving throws.
Only elves, half-elves, and priests are allowed saving throws against this spell. Note
that this spell has no effect on the undead (skeletons, zombies, ghouls, and so on), or on
upper or lower planar creatures of any sort.
The material component used for this spell is a bit of bone from an undead skeleton,
zombie, ghoul, ghast, or mummy.

 Sense Shifting (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 turns
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
Sense shifting allows the wizard to affect all spells of levels 1 through 3 that he casts 
within the duration of the spell. For each spell, he can modify one of three sensory 
features pertaining to the spell: color, sound, or patterned visual appearance of the spell 
effect. The changes produced by this spell do not affect the functions of the affected spell 
nor any saving throws that apply against their effects.
Sense shifting might be used to produce green fireballs, magic missiles that streak 
through the air with a scream, colored continual light globes, customized designs for a 
hypnotic pattern, or a spectral hand that makes scrabbling sounds as it attempts to grasp a 
target.
Sense shifting cannot create any form of invisibility. It cannot completely silence a 
spell effect (thus, a fireball's blast might be muted, but not wholly eliminated).
The material component is a twist of multi-colored ribbon with a small silver bell 
fastened to its end. 

 Shatter
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 3-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
The shatter spell is a sound-based attack that affects nonmagical objects of crystal,
glass, ceramic, or porcelain, such as vials, bottles, flasks, jugs, windows, mirrors, etc. All
such objects within a 3-foot radius of the center of the spell effect are smashed into
dozens of pieces by the spell. Objects weighing more than one pound per level of the
caster are not affected, but all other objects of the appropriate composition must save vs.
crushing blow or be shattered. Alternatively, the spell can be focused against a single
item of up to 10 pounds per caster level. Crystalline creatures usually suffer 1d6 points of
damage per caster level to a maximum of 6d6, with a saving throw vs. spell for half
damage.
The material component of this spell is a chip of mica.

 Silence 15' Radius 
(Alteration)
Level: 2
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 15-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
Upon casting this spell, complete silence prevails in the affected area. All sound is 
stopped: conversation is impossible, spells with verbal components cannot be cast, and no 
noise issues from or enters the area. The spell can be cast into the air or upon an object, 
but the effect is stationary unless cast on a mobile object or creature. The spell lasts two 
rounds for each level of the experience of the caster. If the spell is centered on a creature, 
the effect then radiates from the creature and moves as it moves. An unwilling creature 
receives a saving throw vs. spell. If successful, the spell effect is centered about one foot 
behind the position of the creature at the instant of casting (the effect does not move with 
the creature in this case). This spell provides a defense against sound-based attacks, such 
as harpy singing, a horn of blasting, etc. 

 Soften Earth and Stone
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental Earth
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. square/level Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: None
When this spell is cast, all natural, undressed earth or stone in the area of effect is 
softened. Wet earth becomes thick mud; dry earth becomes loose sand or dirt; and stone 
becomes soft clay, easily molded or chopped. The priest affects a 10-foot square area to a 
depth of 1 to 4 feet, depending on the toughness or resilience of the ground at that spot 
(DM option). Magical or enchanted stone cannot be affected by this spell, nor can dressed 
or worked stone.
Creatures attempting to move through an area softened into mud are reduced to a 
move of 10 feet per round. Any creatures caught within the mud when the spell takes 
effect must make a saving throw vs. paralyzation or lose the ability to move, attack, or 
cast spells for 1d2 rounds as they flounder about in the muck. Loose dirt is not as 
troublesome as mud, and creatures are only reduced to half their normal movement rate, 
with no chance of being caught for a round or two. However, it is impossible to run, 
sprint, or charge over either surface.
Stone softened into clay does not hinder movement, but it does allow characters to 
cut, shape, or excavate areas they may not have been able to affect before. For example, a 
party of PCs trying to break out of a cavern might use this spell to soften a wall.
While soften earth and stone does not affect dressed or worked stone, vertical 
surfaces such as cliff faces or cavern ceilings can be affected. Usually, this causes a 
moderate collapse or landslide as the loosened material peels away from the face or roof 
and falls. A moderate amount of structural damage can be inflicted to man-made 
structures by softening the ground beneath a wall or tower, causing it to settle. However, 
most well-built structures will only be damaged by this spell, not destroyed. The material 
component is a bit of slip (wet clay) from the wheel of a master potter.

 Spectral Hand
(Necromancy)
Range: 30 yds. + 5 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 opponent Saving Throw: None
This spell causes a ghostly, glowing hand, shaped from the caster's life force, to
materialize within the spell range and move as the caster desires. Any touch attack spell
of 4th level or less that is subsequently cast by the wizard can be delivered by the spectral
hand. The spell gives the caster a +2 bonus to his attack roll. The caster cannot perform
any other actions when attacking with the hand; the hand returns to the caster and hovers
if the caster takes other actions. The hand lasts the full spell duration unless dismissed by
the caster, and it is possible to use more than one touch attack with it. The hand receives
flank and rear attack bonuses if the caster is in a position to do so. The hand is vulnerable
to magical attack but has an Armor Class of -2. Any damage to the hand ends the spell
and inflicts 1d4 points of damage to the caster.

 Stinking Cloud
(Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
When a stinking cloud is cast, the wizard creates a billowing mass of nauseous vapors
up to 30 yards away from his position. Any creature caught within the cloud must roll a
successful saving throw vs. poison or be reeling and unable to attack because of nausea
for 1d4+1 rounds after leaving the cloud. Those who make successful saving throws can
leave the cloud without suffering any ill effects, although those remaining in the cloud
must continue to save each round. These poisonous effects can be slowed or neutralized
by appropriate magic. The cloud duration is halved in a moderate breeze (8-18 m.p.h.)
and is dispersed in one round by a stronger breeze.
The material component of the spell is a rotten egg or several skunk cabbage leaves.

 Strength
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Person touched Saving Throw: None
Application of this spell increases the Strength of the character by a number of points--
or tenths of points after 18 Strength is attained (only if the character is a warrior).
Benefits of the strength spell last for the duration of the magic. The amount of added
Strength depends upon the spell recipient's group and is subject to all restrictions on
Strength due to race and class. Multiclass characters use the best die.

Class\ Strength Gain
Priest\ 1d6 points
Rogue\ 1d6 points
Warrior\ 1d8 points
Wizard\ 1d4 points

If a warrior has an 18 Strength already, from 10% to 80% is added to his extraordinary
Strength roll. The spell cannot confer a Strength of 19 or more, nor is it cumulative with
other magic that adds to Strength. Beings without Strength scores (kobolds, lizard men,
etc.) receive a +1 to attack and damage rolls.
The material component of this spell is a few hairs, or a pinch of dung, from a
particularly strong animal--ape, bear, ox, etc.

 Summon Swarm
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
The swarm of small animals (roll on following table to determine type, or the DM can
assign an appropriate creature) drawn by the summon swarm spell will viciously attack
all creatures in the area chosen by the caster. Creatures actively defending against the
swarm to the exclusion of other activities suffer 1 point of damage for each round spent
in the swarm. Those taking other actions, including leaving the swarm, receive damage
equal to 1d4 points + 1 point per three levels of the caster each round. Note that
spellcasting within the swarm is impossible.

Dice Roll\ Swarm Type
01-40\ Rats
41-70\ Bats
71-80\ Spiders
81-90\ Centipedes/beetles
91-100\ Flying insects

The swarm cannot be fought effectively with weapons, but fire and area effects can
force it to disperse by inflicting damage. The swarm disperses when it has taken a total of
2 hit points per caster level from these attacks. A protection from evil spell keeps the
swarm at bay, and certain area-effect spells, such as gust of wind and stinking cloud,
disperse a swarm immediately, if appropriate to the swarm summoned (for example, only
flyers are affected by a gust of wind). The caster must remain stationary and undisturbed
to control the swarm; if his concentration lapses or is broken, the swarm disperses in two
rounds. The swarm is stationary once conjured.
The material component is a square of red cloth.


 Tasha's Uncontrollable Hideous Laughter 
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 1 or more creatures Saving Throw: Neg.
in a 30-ft. cube
The victim of this spell perceives everything as hilariously funny. The effect is not
immediate, and the creature feels only a slight tingling on the round the spell is cast. On
the round immediately following, the victim begins smiling, then giggling, chuckling,
tittering, snickering, guffawing, and finally collapsing into gales of uncontrollable,
hideous laughter. Although this magical mirth lasts only a single round, the affected
creature must spend the next round regaining its feet, and it loses 2 points from its
Strength (or -2 to attack and damage rolls) for all remaining rounds of the spell.
The saving throw vs. spell is modified by the Intelligence of the creature. Creatures
with Intelligences of 4 or less (semi-intelligent) are totally unaffected. Those with
Intelligences of 5-7 (low) save with -6 penalties. Those with Intelligences of 8-12
(average to very) save with -4 penalties. Those with Intelligences of 13-14 (high) save
with -2 penalties. Those with Intelligences of 15 or greater (exceptional) have unmodified
saving throws.
The caster can affect one creature for every three levels attained--for example, one at
3rd level, two at 6th level, three at 9th level, etc. All affected beings must be within 30
feet of each other.
The material components are a small feather and minute tarts. The tarts are hurled at
the subjects, while the feather is waved in one hand.

 Wall of Gloom
(Conjuration/Summoning, Shadow)
Range: 30 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Two 10-ft. cubes, Saving Throw: Special
 + one 10-ft. cube/level (max. is 8 cubes)
Subtlety: +3 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Huge visual, small tactile Critical: None
This spell creates a wall or barrier of ominous shadow in any area within the spell 
range. The wall of gloom does not obscure sight completely, but objects or creatures 
within the wall, or on its other side, are dim shadows that can barely be seen. Creatures 
attempting missile fire through the wall suffer a –2 penalty to their attack rolls. In 
addition, the supernatural cold and darkness of the wall of gloom may cause creatures 
moving through the wall to recoil in fear. Creatures of 4 Hit Dice or less who enter the 
wall must make a saving throw vs. spell or retreat for 1d3 rounds; creatures of 4+1 to 7 
Hit Dice must save or hesitate for 1 round before entering the wall; and undead and 
creatures of 7+1 Hit Dice or more ignore the wall’s fear effects.
The wall can take any shape the caster desires, as long as it is at least 10 feet high 
and 10 feet thick. The material component is a bit of fleece from a black sheep and the 
eyelash of a revenant.

 Watery Fist
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: d10
Sensory: Moderate visual Critical: Medium (1 hit) crushing
This spell conjures a coherent pseudopod of water from any suitable body of 
water at least 5 feet across and 2 feet deep (for streams) or 10 feet in diameter and 2 feet 
deep (for ponds or pools). The pseudopod can stretch up to 10 feet plus 1 foot per caster 
level from its source, so a 3rd-level priest could command watery fist to strike at a 
creature hovering thirteen feet above a lake or standing on the shore 13 feet from the 
water. The pseudopod obeys the priest’s mental commands, although the priest must 
concentrate each round in order to maintain control of the watery member.
The pseudopod is incapable of fine manipulation, but it can be used to make 
bludgeoning or constricting attacks. When used to strike at opponents, it attacks with the 
caster’s THAC0 and inflicts damage as shown below. The priest may add his magical 
attack adjustment (from his Wisdom score) to his THAC0, but Strength-based 
adjustments or special weapon skills don’t help the priest to control watery fist. The 
pseudopod may be able to make rear or flank attacks if the priest can direct it into the 
proper position.
If used to encircle and constrict, the pseudopod must first make an attack roll as 
described above, inflicting damage based on the priest’s level. However, in following 
rounds, the pseudopod automatically strikes its grappled target for constricting damage, 
+1 point per round of constricting. In other words, in the first round the victim sustains 
listed damage, in the second round he sustains listed damage +1, in the third he sustains 
listed damage +2, and so on. The pseudopod holds its target with an effective Strength 
equal to the priest’s Wisdom score.

Caster Level | Striking Damage | Constricting Damage 
1–4          |  1d6            |  1d3
5–8          |  1d10           |  1d6
9–12         |  1d12           |  1d8
13+          | 2d8             |  1d10

Watery fist can be released by the priest any time he cares to stop concentrating 
on maintaining it. The pseudopod immediately resumes its normal state, possibly 
drenching a grappled creature or extinguishing a small fire if the caster wishes. The 
pseudopod is AC 6 and has 15 hp plus 1 hp per caster level, but it can only be damaged 
by magical weapons, fire, or cold; all other attacks simply pass through the water. 
Transmute water to dust, part water, lower water, and Otiluke’s freezing sphere all 
destroy watery fist on contact. 
The material component is a vial full of blessed water or a sprig of mistletoe that 
is thrown onto the body of water from which the fist will be summoned.

 Web
(Evocation)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns/level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 8,000 cubic ft. Saving Throw: Neg. or _
A web spell creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands similar to spider
webs but far larger and tougher. These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and
diametrically opposed points--floor and ceiling, opposite walls, etc.--or the web collapses
upon itself and disappears.
The web spell covers a maximum area of eight 10-foot x 10-foot x 10-foot cubes and
the webs must be at least 10 feet thick, so a mass 40 feet high, 20 feet wide, and 10 feet
deep may be cast. Creatures caught within webs, or simply touching them, become stuck
among the gluey fibers.
Anyone in the area when the spell is cast must roll a saving throw vs. spell with a -2
penalty. If the saving throw is successful, two things may have occurred. If the creature
has room to escape the area, then it is assumed to have jumped free. If there is no room to
escape, then the webs are only half strength. Creatures with less than 13 Strength (7 if the
webs are half strength) are stuck until freed by another or until the spell wears off.
Missile fire is generally ineffective against creatures trapped in webs.
Creatures with Strengths between 13 and 17 can break through 1 foot of webs per
round. Creatures with 18 or greater Strength can break through 2 feet of webs per round.
If the webs are at half strength, these rates are doubled. (Great mass equates to great
strength in this case, and creatures of large mass hardly notice webs.) Strong and huge
creatures can break through 10 feet of webs per round.
Furthermore, the strands of a web spell are flammable. A magical flaming sword can
slash them away as easily as a hand brushes away cobwebs. Any fire--torch, flaming oil,
flaming sword, etc.--can set them alight and burn them away in a single round. All
creatures within flaming webs suffer 2d4 points of damage from the flames, but those
free of the strands are not harmed.
The material component of this spell is a bit of spider web.

 Whispering Wind
(Alteration, Phantasm)
Range: 1 mi./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 2-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to either send a message or cause some
desired sound effect. The whispering wind can travel as many miles above ground as the
spellcaster has levels of experience, to a specific location within range that is familiar to
the wizard. The whispering wind is as gentle and unnoticed as a zephyr until it reaches
the location. It then delivers its whisper-quiet message or other sound. Note that the
message is delivered regardless of whether anyone is present to hear it. The wind then
dissipates. The wizard can prepare the spell to bear a message of up to 25 words, cause
the spell to deliver other sounds for one round, or merely have the whispering wind seem
to be a faint stirring of the air that has a susurrant sound. He can likewise cause the
whispering wind to move as slowly as a mile per hour or as quickly as a mile per turn.
When the spell reaches its objective, it swirls and remains until the message is delivered.
As with the magic mouth spell, no spells may be cast via the whispering wind.

 Wizard Lock
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 30 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
A wizard lock spell cast upon a door, chest, or portal magically locks it. The caster can
freely pass his own lock without affecting it; otherwise, the wizard-locked door or object
can be opened only by breaking in, by a successful dispel magic or knock spell, or by a
wizard four or more levels higher than the one casting the spell. Note that the last two
methods do not remove the wizard lock; they only negate it for a brief duration--about
one turn. Creatures from other planes cannot burst a wizard lock as they can a held portal
(see the hold portal spell).

 Vocalize (Alteration) 
Range: Touch
Components: S, M
Duration: 5 rounds
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One spell-casting creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the recipient to cast spells that normally require a verbal component 
without the caster needing to make a sound. Such spells must be cast within the duration 
of the vocalize spell. This spell is also useful in situations where quiet is desired, or when 
the recipient is under the influence of a silence spell. 
Vocalize does not negate a silence spell, but merely offsets it for the purpose of spell 
casting; if a spell caster under the effect of vocalize casts a spell that has some audible 
effect, that sound will be masked for as long as silence remains in force. Vocalize does 
not affect normal vocal communication. 
The material component for this spell is a small golden bell without a clapper

 Second-Level Spells

 Aid
(Necromancy, Conjuration)
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The recipient of this spell gains the benefit of a bless spell (+1 to attack rolls and
saving throws) and a special bonus of 1d8 additional hit points for the duration of the
spell. The aid spell enables the recipient to actually have more hit points than his full
normal total. The bonus hit points are lost first when the recipient takes damage; they
cannot be regained by curative magic.
For example, a 1st-level fighter has 8 hit points, suffers 2 points of damage (8-2 = 6),
and then receives an aid spell that gives 5 additional hit points. The fighter now has 11 hit
points, 5 of which are temporary. If he is then hit for 7 points of damage, 2 normal hit
points and all 5 temporary hit points are lost. He then receives a cure light wounds spell
that heals 4 points of damage, restoring him to his original 8 hit points.
Note that the operation of the spell is unaffected by permanent hit point losses due to
energy drain, Hit Die losses, the loss of a familiar, or the operation of certain artifacts; the
temporary hit point gain is figured from the new, lower total.
The material components of this spell are a tiny strip of white cloth with a sticky
substance (such as tree sap) on the ends, plus the priest's holy symbol.

 Animal Spy (Divination)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/2 levels of caster
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 animal
Saving Throw: Wizard familiars may save vs. spell to negate.
Only a normal (real-world) animal or a giant version of a normal animal species may 
become an animal spy. This spell enables the caster to share the animal's senses--see 
through the animal's eyes, hear with its ears, smell with its nose, and so on. The animal is 
completely unaware of the spell's effect, unless the druid warns the beast before casting. 
Animal spy grants no control over the creature. However, most casters will use it on a 
trained animal or one befriended via the animal friendship spell.
For the duration of the spell, the caster remains in a trance, unable to move or use 
human senses. This consequence can prove dangerous; for instance, characters attacked 
while using the spell cannot feel injuries to their bodies. However, at the start of any 
round, the caster may choose to return the animal's senses to the creature and resume 
control of the human body. This decision ends the spell immediately. The spell also ends 
if the animal travels more than 100 yards away per level of the caster.

 Augury
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 2 rds.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The priest casting an augury spell seeks to divine whether an action in the immediate
future (within one-half hour) will benefit or harm the party. For example, if a party is
considering the destruction of a weird seal that closes a portal, an augury spell can be
used to find if weal or woe will be the immediate result. If the spell is successful, the DM
yields some indication of the probable outcome: "weal," "woe," or possibly a cryptic
puzzle or rhyme. The base chance for receiving a meaningful reply is 70%, plus 1% for
each level of the priest casting the spell; for example, 71% at 1st level, 72% at 2nd, etc.
Your DM determines any adjustments for the particular conditions of each augury.
For example, if the question is "Will we do well if we venture to the third level?" and a
terrible troll guarding 10,000 sp and a shield +1 lurks near the entrance to the level
(which the DM estimates the party could beat after a hard fight), the augury might be:
"Great risk brings great reward." If the troll is too strong for the party, the augury might
be: "Woe and destruction await!" Likewise, a party casting several auguries about the
same action in quick succession might receive identical answers, regardless of the dice
rolls.
The material component for an augury spell is a set of gem-inlaid sticks, dragon bones,
or similar tokens of at least 1,000 gp value (which are not expended in casting).

 Aura of Comfort (Evocation) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a faintly shimmering aura surrounds the recipient. The aura 
insulates the recipient from the effects of nonmagical heat and cold in a range of -20 F. to 
140 F. Any time a traveler encounters temperatures in this range, he maintains a 
comfortable temperature of 70 F., regardless of prevailing weather conditions. 
Additionally, the spell acts as a shield against rain, snow, and hail, which are blocked by 
the aura.
If a recipient encounters a temperature above or below the stated range, the 
temperature within the aura is altered by an equal number of degrees. For example, a 
recipient who encounters a temperature of 150 will actually experience a temperature of 
80°F.
All physical objects other than rain, snow, and hail can pass through the aura. The 
recipient can cast spells normally while the aura of comfort is in effect.
 The spell offers no protection against magically generated weather, such as that caused by weather 
summoning and ice storm. It does not protect against fire, nor does it shield against fire or cold-based attacks. 

 Barkskin
(Alteration)
Sphere: Protection, Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When a priest casts the barkskin spell upon a creature, its skin becomes as tough as
bark, increasing its base Armor Class to AC 6, plus 1 AC for every four levels of the
priest: Armor Class 5 at 4th level, Armor Class 4 at 8th, and so on. This spell does not
function in combination with normal armor or any magical protection. In addition, saving
throw rolls vs. all attack forms except magic gain a +1 bonus. This spell can be placed on
the caster or on any other creature he touches.
In addition to his holy symbol, the caster must have a handful of bark from an oak as
the material component for the spell.

 Beastspite (Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour/level of caster
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 person
Saving Throw: Neg.
Beastspite afflicts a single person with a magical aura that induces one species of 
animal to hate and fear the character. The character becomes loathed by any species of 
normal (real-world) animal. While this range excludes monsters, it includes giant animals 
of the same real-world species. (For example, if beastspite causes bats to hate the subject, 
giant bats will react similarly.)
When the character comes within 30 yards of an animal from the target species, the 
creature will make warning signals (barks, growls, etc.). Its further reaction depends on 
the animal's nature.
· Aggressive animals, including all predators and most trained guard animals, 
attack the spell recipient.
· Nonaggressive beasts shun the character, fleeing or attacking if approached.
· Owners can restrain their domesticated animals, but the beasts show obvious 
distress and may become very hostile if the character tries to touch them.
· If the subject was riding when the spell took effect, the mount tries to throw off 
the character. The subject must make a riding proficiency check each round to 
stay astride and to avoid a fall if thrown off.
· An animal extremely loyal to the subject, such as a pet dog, a creature influenced 
by an animal friendship spell, a wizard's familiar, or a paladin's war horse does 
not become utterly hostile to its owner. Instead it notices something "wrong" 
about the character and acts unusually nervous.

 Calm Chaos (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 20 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1d6 creatures/level
Saving Throw: Special
This spell temporarily calms a chaotic situation involving a group of people. The 
situation may involve any range of emotions from violence (as in a barroom brawl) to joy 
and merrymaking (as in a festival or carnival).
Unlike the emotion spell, calm chaos does not cause a change in the emotions of 
affected creatures--anger, fear, or intense joy remain in each individual. The emotion is 
simply restrained rather than released. Thus, an angry character intent on attacking 
someone will still feel the desire to do so, but he will withhold his action as long as the 
spell remains in effect.
Creatures to be affected are allowed a saving throw vs. spell at a -4 penalty to avoid 
the effects. If more creatures are present than can be affected, creatures nearest the caster 
are affected first.
After casting the spell, the priest makes a Charisma check. If successful, all characters 
affected by the spell are compelled to stop what they are doing. They are filled with the 
sensation that something important is about to occur. At this time, the priest or a 
character of his choosing must gain the attention of the affected creatures by giving a 
speech, performing for the crowd, or casting spells with intriguing visual effects (such as 
dancing lights). The attention of the crowd is then held for as long as the distraction 
continues. A character could filibuster and maintain control over the affected characters 
for hours or days.
Two conditions will cause the group to resume its original actions. In the first, the 
method of entertaining the crowd ceases for one round--the speech ends or the spell 
expires. If this action is not replaced with another distraction within one round, the crowd 
is freed of the spell.
In the second condition, if an event occurs that is more immediate than the 
distraction, the crowd will divert its attention to that event. Thus, if the spell were used to 
stop a barroom brawl and the building caught fire or was attacked, the crowd's attention 
would be diverted and the individuals could act freely.
Creatures whose attention is held by the spell cannot be instructed to attack or 
perform any action. Such creatures will ignore suggestions of this nature. Depending on 
the nature of the request, the DM may deem that the suggestion causes a distraction that 
ends the spell. 

 Chant
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Time of chanting Casting Time: 2 rds.
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
By means of the chant spell, the priest brings special favor upon himself and his party,
and causes harm to his enemies. When the chant spell is completed, all attack and
damage rolls and saving throws made by those in the area of effect who are friendly to
the priest gain +1 bonuses, while those of the priest's enemies suffer -1 penalties. This
bonus/penalty continues as long as the caster continues to chant the mystic syllables and
is stationary. However, an interruption (such as an attack that succeeds and causes
damage, grappling with the chanter, or a silence spell) breaks the spell. Multiple chants
are not cumulative; however, if the 3rd-level prayer spell is spoken while a priest of the
same religious persuasion (not merely alignment) is chanting, the effect is increased to +2
and -2.

 Charm Person or Mammal
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 person or mammal Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell affects any single person or mammal it is cast upon. The creature then
regards the caster as a trusted friend and ally to be heeded and protected. The term person
includes any bipedal human, demihuman or humanoid of man size or smaller, including
brownies, dryads, dwarves, elves, gnolls, gnomes, goblins, half-elves, halflings, half-orcs,
hobgoblins, humans, kobolds, lizard men, nixies, orcs, pixies, sprites, troglodytes, and
others. Thus, a 10th-level fighter is included, while an ogre is not.
The spell does not enable the caster to control the charmed creature as if it were an
automaton, but any word or action of the caster is viewed in the most favorable way.
Thus, a charmed creature would not obey a suicide command, but might believe the
caster if assured that the only chance to save the caster's life is for the creature to hold
back an onrushing red dragon for "just a minute or two" and if the charmed creature's
view of the situation suggests that this course of action still allows a reasonable chance of
survival.
The subject's attitudes and priorities are changed with respect to the caster, but basic
personality and alignment are not. A request that a victim make itself defenseless, give up
a valued item, or even use a charge from a valued item (especially against former
associates or allies) might allow an immediate saving throw to see if the charm is thrown
off. Likewise, a charmed creature does not necessarily reveal everything it knows or draw
maps of entire areas. Any request may be refused, if such refusal is in character and does
not directly harm the caster. The victim's regard for the caster does not necessarily extend
to the caster's friends or allies. The victim does not react well to the charmer's allies
making suggestions such as, "Ask him this question. . .," nor does the charmed creature
put up with verbal or physical abuse from the charmer's associates, if this is out of
character.
Note also that the spell does not empower the caster with linguistic capabilities beyond
those he normally has. The duration of the spell is a function of the charmed creature's
Intelligence, and it is tied to the saving throw. A successful saving throw breaks the spell.
This saving throw is checked on a periodic basis according to the creature's Intelligence,
even if the caster has not overly strained the relationship.

Intelligence Score | Period Between Checks
3 or less          | 3 months
4-6                | 2 months
7-9                | 1 month
10-12              | 3 weeks
13-14              | 2 weeks
15-16              | 1 week
17                 | 3 days
18                 | 2 days
19 or more         | 1 day

If the caster harms, or attempts to harm, the charmed creature by some overt action, or
if a dispel magic spell is successfully cast upon the charmed creature, the charm is broken
automatically.
If the subject of the charm person/charm mammal spell successfully rolls its saving
throw vs. the spell, the effect is negated.
This spell, if used in conjunction with the animal friendship spell, can keep the animal
near the caster's home base, if the caster must leave for an extended period.

 Create Holy Symbol (Conjuration) 
Sphere: Creation
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
When the words of this spell are uttered, a holy symbol appropriate to the priest's 
deity appears out of thin air. The item appears in the priest's hands. It may be used as a 
component for spells or for any other purpose for which the priest would normally use his 
holy symbol (such as turning undead). He may also opt to give it to a lower level priest of 
the same deity. The holy symbol is a permanent object. 

 Detect Charm
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature/rd. Saving Throw: Neg.
When used by a priest, this spell can detect if a person or monster is under the
influence of a charm spell, or similar control such as hypnosis, suggestion, beguiling,
possession, etc. The creature rolls a saving throw vs. spell and, if successful, the caster
learns nothing about that particular creature from the casting. A caster who learns that a
creature is being influenced has a 5% chance per level to determine the exact type of
influence. Up to 10 different creatures can be checked before the spell wanes. If the
creature is under more than one such effect, only the information that the charms exist is
gained. The type (since there are conflicting emanations) is impossible to determine.
The reverse of the spell, undetectable charm, completely masks all charms on a single
creature for 24 hours.

 Dissension's Feast (Enchantment/Charm, Alteration) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 5 turns+2 turns/level
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell must be cast by a priest during the preparation of food for a meal. The spell 
is cast on any one quantity of food; thus, the priest could cast the spell on the batter of a 
wedding cake, or he could cast the spell on a quantity of onions as they are diced for both 
a salad and a stew. The spell affects 10 pounds of food per level of the caster. Anyone 
who eats the affected food (even a character who eats the salad but not the stew) is 
subject to the effects of the spell.
The effects of the spell begin five rounds after the food has been eaten. At that time, 
creatures who have eaten the affected food are allowed a saving throw; success indicates 
that a creature is not affected.
Affected creatures quickly become agitated. Petty events ranging from poor table 
manners to loud talking bother everyone. After five minutes, tempers flare, characters 
feel compelled to shout at and insult one another, and threats are hurled. Even normally 
calm characters will feel compelled to vent their frustrations violently.
Creatures maintain no alliances while under the effect of dissension's feast. A king 
and his wife who are normally madly in love will find themselves bickering with each 
other in a matter of minutes. Members of a diplomatic delegation might come to blows 
with each other within minutes of eating the food.
At the end of the spell duration, characters undergo the sensation of waking up. All 
are free to behave as they wish. Characters at the meal will still be angry, although they 
will have no idea why they became angry.

 Draw Upon Holy Might (Invocation) 
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None 
When this spell is cast, the priest's body shudders and glows with a shimmering aura 
as it becomes a vessel for the power of his god. As a result, the caster may choose to 
increase one ability score (only Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, and Charisma are 
eligible) by +1 per three levels of his experience (+1 at 3rd level, +2 at 6th, etc.). 
Only one attribute may be increased. The effect lasts for the duration of the spell. 
Attributes may be increased above the normal restrictions due to race and class, to a 
maximum of +6. All benefits for exceptional attributes listed in the Player's Handbook
apply; however, the divine abilities found in the Legends & Lore book cannot be gained 
by use of this spell.
For example, an 18th-level priest with Strength 15 could increase his Strength to 21 
for 18 rounds, granting him a +4 attack bonus, a +9 damage adjustment, etc.
When the spell ends, the energy abruptly leaves the priest's body, leaving him 
physically and mentally drained. He is nearly comatose and can do nothing but rest for 
the next 4d6 turns. A successful Constitution check (at the priest's normal attribute score) 
reduces this time by 50%.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a vial of holy water that has 
been blessed by the high priest of the character's faith. 

 Dust Devil
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 2 rds.
Area of Effect: 5 x 4 ft. cone Saving Throw: None
This spell enables a priest to conjure up a weak air elemental--a dust devil of AC 4, 2
HD, MV 180 feet per round, one attack for 1d4 points of damage--which can be hit by
normal weapons. The dust devil appears as a small whirlwind 1 foot in diameter at its
base, 5 feet tall, and 3 to 4 feet across at the top. It moves as directed by the priest, but
dissipates if it is ever separated from the caster by more than 30 yards. Its winds are
sufficient to put out torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns, and other small, open
flames of nonmagical origin. The dust devil can hold a gas cloud or a creature in gaseous
form at bay or push it away from the caster (though it cannot damage or disperse such a
cloud). If skimming along the ground in an area of loose dust, sand, or ash, the dust devil
picks up those particles and disperses them in a 10-foot-diameter cloud centered on itself.
The cloud obscures normal vision, and creatures caught within are blinded while inside
and for one round after they emerge. A spellcaster caught in the dust devil or its cloud
while casting must make a saving throw vs. spell to keep his concentration, or the spell is
ruined. Any creature native to the Elemental Plane of Air--even another dust devil--can
disperse a dust devil with a single hit.

 Emotion Perception (Divination) 
Sphere: War
Range: 300 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One unit/five levels
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the caster to sense the emotional state and the level of determination 
of one or more military units. The priest must have an uninterrupted line of sight to the 
entire target unit. When this spell is cast, the priest instantly learns the current morale 
rating and morale status of the target unit. The DM describes morale using the 
appropriate term; for example, steady, elite, etc.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol. 

 Enthrall
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 90-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
A priest using this spell can enthrall an audience that can fully understand his
language. Those in the area of effect must successfully save vs. spell or give the caster
their undivided attention, totally ignoring their surroundings. Those of a race or religion
unfriendly to the caster's have a +4 bonus to the roll. Any Wisdom adjustment also
applies. Creatures with 4 or more levels or Hit Dice, or with a Wisdom of 16 or better,
are unaffected.
To cast the spell, the caster must speak without interruption for a full round.
Thereafter, the enchantment lasts as long as the priest speaks, to a maximum of one hour.
Those enthralled take no action while the priest speaks, and for 1d3 rounds thereafter
while they discuss the matter. Those entering the area of effect must also successfully
save vs. spell or become enthralled. Those not enthralled are 50% likely every turn to
hoot and jeer in unison. If there is excessive jeering, the rest are allowed a new saving
throw. The speech ends (but the 1d3 round delay still applies) if the priest is successfully
attacked or performs any action other than speaking.
If the audience is attacked, the spell ends and the audience reacts immediately, rolling
a reaction check with respect to the source of the interruption, at a penalty of -10.
Note: When handling a large number of saving throws for similar creatures, the DM
can assume an average to save time; for example, a crowd of 20 men with a base saving
throw of 16 (25% success chance) will have 15 men enthralled and five not.

 Find Traps
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 3 turns Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10 ft. x 30 yds. Saving Throw: None
When a priest casts a find traps spell, all traps--concealed normally or magically--of
magical or mechanical nature become apparent to him. Note that this spell is directional,
and the caster must face the desired direction in order to determine if a trap is laid in that
particular direction.
A trap is any device or magical ward that meets three criteria: it can inflict a sudden or
unexpected result, the spellcaster would view the result as undesirable or harmful, and the
harmful or undesirable result was specifically intended as such by the creator. Thus, traps
include alarms, glyphs, and similar spells or devices.
The caster learns the general nature of the trap (magical or mechanical) but not its
exact effect, nor how to disarm it. Close examination will, however, enable the caster to
sense what intended actions might trigger it. Note that the caster's divination is limited to
his knowledge of what might be unexpected and harmful. The spell cannot predict actions
of creatures (hence, a concealed murder hole or ambush is not a trap), nor are natural
hazards considered traps (a cavern that floods during a rain, a wall weakened by age, a
naturally poisonous plant, etc.). If the DM is using specific glyphs or sigils to identify
magical wards (see the 3rd-level spell glyph of warding), this spell shows the form of the
glyph or mark. The spell does not detect traps that have been disarmed or are otherwise
inactive.

 Fire Trap
(Abjuration, Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent until discharged Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Object touched Saving Throw: _
Any closeable item (book, box, bottle, chest, coffer, coffin, door, drawer, and so forth)
can be warded by a fire trap spell. The spell is centered on a point selected by the
spellcaster. The item so trapped cannot have a second closure or warding spell placed
upon it. A knock spell cannot affect a fire trap in any way--as soon as the offending party
opens the item, the trap discharges. As with most magical traps, a thief has only half his
normal find traps score to detect a fire trap. Failure to remove it successfully detonates it
immediately. An unsuccessful dispel magic spell will not detonate the spell. When the
trap is discharged, there will be an explosion of 5-foot radius from the spell's center. All
creatures within this area must roll saving throws vs. spell. Damage is 1d4 points plus 1
point per level of the caster, and half that total amount for creatures successfully saving.
(Under water, this ward inflicts half damage and creates a large cloud of steam.) The item
trapped is not harmed by this explosion.
The caster can use the trapped object without discharging it, as can any individual to
whom the spell was specifically attuned when cast (the method usually involves a key
word).
To place this spell, the caster must trace the outline of the closure with a stick of
charcoal and touch the center of the effect. Attunement to another individual requires a
hair or similar object from the individual.
The material components are holly berries.

 Flame Blade
(Evocation)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./2 levels Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 3-ft. long blade Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster causes a blazing ray of red-hot fire to spring forth from his
hand. This bladelike ray is wielded as if it were a scimitar. If the caster successfully hits
with the flame blade in melee combat, the creature struck suffers 1d4+4 points of
damage, with a damage bonus of +2 (i. e., 7-10 points) if the creature is undead or is
especially vulnerable to fire. If the creature is protected from fire, the damage inflicted is
reduced by 2 (i.e., 1d4+2 points). Fire dwellers and those using fire as an innate attack
form suffer no damage from the spell. The flame blade can ignite combustible materials
such as parchment, straw, dry sticks, cloth, etc. However, it is not a magical weapon in
the normal sense of the term, so creatures (other than undead) struck only by magical
weapons are not harmed by it. This spell does not function under water.
In addition to the caster's holy symbol, the spell requires a leaf of sumac as a material
component.

 Fortifying Stew (Necromancy)
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Stew retains enchantment 1 turn
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 bowl of stew, etc./level
Saving Throw: None
Any bowl of broth, porridge, or stew the priest has concocted can become subject to 
fortifying stew. A character can enchant one bowl of stew (about 8 ounces) per 
experience level. Someone must consume the enchanted meal within one turn of the 
casting.
Anyone partaking of an entire bowlful reaps magical benefits. First, the diner gains 
nourishment for an entire day from the single meal. In addition, for two hours plus one
round per the caster's level, the character receives 1d4+1 temporary hit points. Any 
damage suffered comes off the extra hit points first. The effects of multiple helpings of 
fortifying stew are not cumulative.
For example, Snapdragon, a 7th-level druid, cooks a meaty broth, casts fortifying 
stew on it, and eats the bowlful. A roll of 2 gives her 3 extra hit points. When the spell's 
effects wear off just over three hours, she loses these extra points. If she suffers 5 points 
of damage in the meantime, she actually loses only 2 hp of her own, since 3 hp came off 
the extra hit points.
The material component is a vial of stock made of the first fruit of the harvest.

 Frisky Chest (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster can enchant a chest, book, or any other nonliving object no 
larger than a 10'x10'x10' cube. When any creature other than the caster comes within 
three feet of the enchanted object, it instantly sprouts appendages and moves away from 
the creature as quickly as possible. The enchanted object continues to move until it is at 
least 10 feet away from the nearest creatures in the area.
After the enchanted object has moved a satisfactory distance from the nearest 
creature, the appendages disappear. When a creature again comes within three feet of the 
enchanted object, the enchanted object sprouts appendages and flees. This process 
continues until the enchantment is negated (through a dispel magic or similar spell) or the 
enchanted object is subdued or destroyed.
The enchanted object can sprout feet (MV 24), wings (Fl 24, maneuverability class 
B), or fins (Sw 24), whichever is most advantageous. Thus, a book on a shelf might 
sprout wings and fly away, while a table might gallop around a room. The enchanted 
object can freely and instantly trade appendages as necessary.
The enchanted object will move only through open spaces. It will not crash through 
windows, shatter a closed door, or dig through the earth. It cannot attack or take any 
actions other than movement. If surrounded or cornered, the enchanted object moves in 
random directions until it is restrained or destroyed.
The enchantment ends if the caster voluntarily negates it, if the enchanted object is 
destroyed (the object has the same vulnerabilities as it has in its normal state), or if the 
enchanted object is restrained for 2-5 (1d4+1) consecutive rounds. Restraint means that 
the object is prevented from fleeing; if a creature is able to grapple, lift, or sit on the 
object, it is considered restrained. A creature capable of lifting the object in its normal 
state is considered strong enough to restrain it (for instance, a person capable of lifting a 
50-pound box is also capable of restraining such a box enchanted by frisky chest). The 
object may also be restrained by tossing a net or heavy blanket over it or by surrounding 
it with several characters. 
The material components are a dried frog's leg, a feather, and a fish scale. 

 Gift of Speech (Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 10 yards/level of caster
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level of caster
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 animal
Saving Throw: None
The gift of speech spell grants a normal animal (or a giant version of a normal 
animal) the ability to speak any one of the languages the caster knows, whichever the 
caster chooses, along with the ability to understand words and simple concepts expressed 
in that language. The affected animal's reactions do not change, nor does its Intelligence 
increase. The spell has no effect if cast on a creature with an Intelligence score of less 
than 1.
The material component of this spell is the priest;s holy symbol.

 Goodberry
(Alteration, Evocation)
Reversible
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day + 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 2d4 fresh berries Saving Throw: None
Casting a goodberry spell upon a handful of freshly picked berries makes 2d4 of them
magical. The caster (as well as any other caster of the same faith and 3rd or higher level)
can immediately discern which berries are affected. A detect magic spell discovers this
also. Berries with the magic either enable a hungry creature of approximately man size to
eat one and be as well-nourished as if a full normal meal were eaten, or else cure 1 point
of physical damage from wounds or other similar causes, subject to a maximum of 8
points of such curing in any 24-hour period.
The reverse of the spell, badberry, causes 2d4 rotten berries to appear wholesome, but
each actually delivers 1 point of poison damage (no saving throw) if ingested.
The material component of the spell is the caster's holy symbol passed over the freshly
picked, edible berries to be enspelled (blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, currants,
gooseberries, etc.).

 Heat Metal
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 40 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 7 rds. Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
By means of the heat metal spell, the caster is able to make ferrous metal (iron, iron
alloys, steel) extremely hot. Elven chain mail is not affected, and magical metal armor
receives an item saving throw vs. magical fire to avoid being heated. The material
component is a holy symbol.
On the first round of the spell, the metal merely becomes very warm and
uncomfortable to touch (this is also the effect on the last melee round of the spell's
duration). During the second and sixth (next to the last) rounds, heat causes blisters and
damage; in the third, fourth, and fifth rounds, the metal becomes searing hot, causing
damage to exposed flesh, as shown below:

Metal Temperature | Damage per Round
very warm         | none
hot               | 1d4 points
searing*          | 2d4 points

* On the final round of searing, the afflicted creature must roll a successful saving
throw vs. spell or suffer one of the following disabilities: hand or foot--becomes unusable
for 2d4 days; body--becomes disabled for 1d4 days; head--fall unconscious for 1d4 turns.
This effect can be completely removed by the 6th-level priest spell heal spell or by
normal rest.
Note also that materials such as wood, leather, or flammable cloth smolder and burn if
exposed to searing hot metal. Such materials cause searing damage to exposed flesh on
the next round. Fire resistance (spell, potion, or ring) or a protection from fire spell totally
negates the effects of a heat metal spell, as does immersion in water or snow, or exposure
to a cold or ice storm spell. This version of the spell does not function under water. For
every two experience levels of the caster, the metal of one man-sized creature can be
affected (i.e., arms and armor, or a single mass of metal equal to 50 pounds of weight).
Thus, a 3rd-level caster would affect one such creature, a 4th- or 5th-level caster two, etc.
The reverse of the spell, chill metal, counters a heat metal spell or else causes metal to
act as follows:

Metal Temperature | Damage per Round
cold              | none
icy               | 1-2 points
freezing*         | 1d4 points

* On the final round of freezing, the afflicted creature must roll a successful saving
throw vs. spell or suffer from the numbing effects of the cold. This causes the loss of all
feeling in a hand (or hands, if the DM rules the saving throw was failed badly) for 1d4
days. During this time, the character's grip is extremely weak and he cannot use that hand
for fighting or any other activity requiring a firm grasp.
The chill metal spell is countered by a resist cold spell, or by any great heat--proximity
to a blazing fire (not a mere torch), a magical flaming sword, a wall of fire spell, etc.
Under water, this version of the spell inflicts no damage, but ice immediately forms
around the affected metal, exerting an upward buoyancy.

 Hesitation (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 20-foot-radius circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
Creatures affected by this spell hesitate before executing their intended actions. This 
causes them to modify their initiative rolls by +4. The initiative modifier occurs in the 
round following the round in which hesitation is cast.
The spell affects 2-8 Hit Dice or levels of creatures, although only one creature of 4 
or more Hit Dice can be affected regardless of the number rolled. All possible victims are 
allowed saving throws vs. spells; those failing their saving throws modify their initiative 
rolls by +4 for a number of rounds equal to the caster's level.
The material component is a fragment of a turtle's shell. 

 Hold Person
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1d4 persons in 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell holds 1d4 humans, demihumans, or humanoid creatures rigidly immobile
and in place for a minimum of six rounds (the spell lasts 2 rounds per caster level, and the
priest must be of at least 3rd level to cast the spell).
The hold person spell affects any bipedal human, demihuman, or humanoid of man
size or smaller, including brownies, dryads, dwarves, elves, gnolls, gnomes, goblins, halfelves,
 halflings, half-orcs, hobgoblins, humans, kobolds, lizard men, nixies, orcs, pixies,
sprites, troglodytes, and others. Thus, a 10th-level fighter could be held, while an ogre
could not.
The effect is centered on a point selected by the caster, and it affects persons selected
by the caster within the area of effect. If the spell is cast at three persons, each gets a
normal saving throw; if only two persons are being enspelled, each rolls his saving throw
with a -1 penalty; if the spell is cast at only one person, the saving throw die roll suffers a
-2 penalty. Saving throws are adjusted for Wisdom. Those who succeed on their saving
throws are totally unaffected by the spell. Undead creatures cannot be held.
Held creatures cannot move or speak, but they remain aware of events around them
and can use abilities not requiring motion or speech. Being held does not prevent the
worsening of the subjects' condition due to wounds, disease, or poison. The priest casting
the hold person spell can end the spell with a single utterance at any time; otherwise, the
duration is six rounds at 3rd level, eight rounds at 4th level, etc.
The spellcaster needs a small, straight piece of iron as the material component of this
spell.

 Idea (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell stimulates the priest's mind to experience a flash of insight. In game terms, 
the DM reminds the priest's player of a fact or event that has been forgotten, overlooked, 
or discounted. Thus, the DM might remind the player about an important clue that the 
priest discovered but the player did not consider significant.
If there are no forgotten facts, the DM may, at his discretion, tell the player of new 
information relevant to the condition at hand.
The DM must be careful in adjudicating use of this spell. The reminder or 
information should always be relevant and useful but should not be unbalancing to the 
situation. The reminder can be cryptic, depending on the DM's campaign.
The material component is a gold coin. This spell can be cast only once in any six 
hour period. 

 Know Alignment
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn Casting time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature or object Saving Throw: Neg.
A know alignment spell enables the priest to exactly read the aura of a creature or an
aligned object (unaligned objects reveal nothing). The caster must remain stationary and
concentrate on the subject for a full round. If the creature rolls a successful saving throw
vs. spell, the caster learns nothing about that particular creature from the casting. Certain
magical devices negate the power of the know alignment spell.
The reverse, undetectable alignment, conceals the alignment of an object or creature
for 24 hours.

 Lighten Load (Alteration) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
This spell reduces the weight of equipment, supplies, and other objects by 50%. 
Weapons, supplies, and even disabled characters can all be made more portable by use of 
a lighten load spell.
This spell affects one pile of objects whose volume is equivalent to a 10-foot cube; 
after the spell has been cast, the affected objects can be divided among several characters 
or mounts. The spell has no effect on magical items.
An object affected by lighten load can be used normally; the spell has no effect on an 
object's mass, texture, size, strength, or other physical features.
The material components are a feather and a slip of paper moistened by a soap 
bubble. 

 Messenger
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 20 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: 1 day/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell enables the priest to call upon a tiny (size T) creature of at least animal
intelligence to act as his messenger. The spell does not affect giant animals and it does
not work on creatures of low (i.e., 5) Intelligence or higher. If the creature is within
range, the priest, using some type of food desirable to the animal as a lure, can call the
animal to come. The animal is allowed a saving throw vs. spell. If the saving throw is
failed, the animal advances toward the priest and awaits his bidding. The priest can
communicate with the animal in a crude fashion, telling it to go to a certain place, but
directions must be simple. The spellcaster can attach some small item or note to the
animal. If so instructed, the animal will then wait at that location until the duration of the
spell expires. (Note that unless the intended recipient of a message is expecting a
messenger in the form of a small animal or bird, the carrier may be ignored.) When the
spell's duration expires, the animal or bird returns to its normal activities. The intended
recipient of a message gains no communication ability.

 Mind Read (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 5 yards/level
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell is a sensitive version of the wizard spell ESP. In addition to detecting the 
surface thoughts of any creatures in range, the priest is able to probe deeper into the mind 
of a single creature. Mind read will always reveal the kind of creature being probed, 
although this identity may be couched in the creature's own language or in a (possibly 
distorted) body image. The spell has a 20% chance of revealing the character class of an 
individual.
The details and the usefulness of the creature's thoughts will depend on the 
intelligence of the subject. While a priest could read the thoughts of an animal, he would 
probably receive only a confused jumble of emotions and instincts. Reading the mind of a 
highly intelligent wizard, however, would be much more illuminating; the priest might be 
amazed by the crystal clarity and deep insight of the wizard's mental processes.
If mind read is used as part of an interrogation, an intelligent and wary subject 
receives a saving throw at a -2 penalty. If successful, the creature resists the spell's effects 
and the priest learns no information. If the saving throw is failed, the priest may learn 
additional information according to the DM's ruling. 

 Moment (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 50-foot radius
Saving Throw: None
Theoretically, every action has a particular moment at which it will have its greatest 
possible effect. Using the arcane mathematics of this spell, the priest can determine the 
"ideal moment" for any single action in each round that the spell is in effect. This action 
must be performed by a character other than the priest.
In practice, another character informs the priest of an action he wants to undertake in 
a round. The priest concentrates on the action, then informs the character when the 
"correct moment" has come. The character then gains a bonus of 20% (+4 on a d20) to 
the success of his action. The spell can affect only a single action in a given round. When 
used in combat, the priest can advise the best moment to initiate an action (affecting 
initiative) or what moment offers the greatest success in striking (affecting the chance to 
hit).
If the character seeks advice concerning initiative, he gains a -2 modifier to the 
initiative roll, but only at the cost of -2 on his chance to hit. Characters who seek the best 
attack frequently delay their actions. These characters suffer a +1 on their initiative roll 
but gain a +4 on their chance to hit. The spell cannot affect the amount of damage caused, 
since the act (striking) has already succeeded at that point.
Characters are not obliged to wait for the moment specified by the priest. For 
example, a fighter might decide that striking first is more important than gaining +4 to 
hit. The character can act normally, based on his or her unmodified initiative. The
character gains no bonus from the moment spell, and the priest can affect no other action 
in that round.
Noncombat actions can also benefit from the moment spell. For example, a thief planning 
to climb a wall may wait to start her climb until the priest informs her that the moment is 
right. If she waits, she gains a bonus of 20% to her Climb Walls roll (in this case, the 
bonus is subtracted from her roll).
While concentrating on this spell, the priest can take no other action. A break in the 
priest's concentration--taking damage in combat, for example--terminates the spell 
instantly.
The material component is a set of three silver dice, which the priest tosses in his 
hand while concentrating on the spell. The dice are not consumed in the casting. 

 Music of the Spheres (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Numbers, Charm
Range: 50 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn+1 round/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 20-foot-diameter circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
With this spell, the priest creates tones and harmonies of such unearthly beauty and 
complexity that they entrance the listener, making it difficult for the listener to attack or 
otherwise harm the priest. The listener receives a normal saving throw against this effect. 
Failure means that the listener is entranced and is unable to attack the priest for the 
duration of the spell.
In addition, the music makes the subject gullible and more susceptible to charm 
magics such as charm person, suggestion, and hypnotism. While the music spell is in 
effect, the subject saves against charm spells with a -3 penalty.
This spell does not protect other characters in company with the priest; listeners who 
have fallen prey to the music are free to attack anyone else. The spell effect ends instantly 
if the priest takes any hostile action against a creature under the influence of the spell.
Music of the spheres can affect one creature per three levels of the priest (one subject 
at 3rd level, two at 6th level, etc.). Subjects must be within a 20-foot-diameter circle.
Potential victims must have Intelligence of at least 1 (necessary to understand the 
concept of music) and must be able to hear the music (i.e., they cannot be deaf and there 
can be nothing obstructing the victim's ears). This also means that the level of 
background noise must be low enough for the music to be audible. The DM should 
assume that the music is the same volume as an average human's normal speaking voice. 
If the potential subject could not hear speech at the appropriate range under prevailing 
conditions, the spell cannot affect that subject. The spell would be virtually useless in the 
midst of a full-scale battle or during a hurricane.
The material component comprises a set of three small bows made from fine silver, 
each costing 100 gp. The lengths of the bows must be in the ratio of 1 to 4 to 9. The priest 
strokes these bows together in an intricate sequence while casting the spell. The bows are 
not consumed in the casting. 

 Mystic Transfer (Invocation) 
Sphere: Charm
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: 9 rounds
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell is one of the few cooperative spells that requires one priest to cast the 
transfer spell, but another priest to use its effect. On one round, a priest (or priests) casts 
the mystic transfer. The spell is then active for the remaining nine rounds of the turn.
Mystic transfer allows a priest to receive spells from another priest of the same ethos. 
Any priest of the same religion can cast a spell and transfer it to a second priest within 
that spell's maximum range. The spell does not take effect; instead, it is channelled 
through the mystic transfer into the receiving priest. This priest must immediately cast the 
spell or pass it to another priest cloaked in a mystic transfer within the spell's range. Any 
number of transfers can be made in the same round, provided each new recipient is within 
spell range of the previous recipient. If the spell is not transferred, the spell takes effect.
For example, a 3rd-level priest casts a mystic transfer. On the following round, a 
10th-level priest "passes" a flame strike to the 3rd-level priest. The two priests could be 
60 yards apart (the maximum range of the flame strike). The 3rd-level priest could then 
use the flame strike to attack any target within 60 yards, or could pass the spell on to 
another priest who has an active mystic transfer.
The spell passed by the mystic transfer has the range, area of effect, damage, and 
other effects equal to the level of the original caster. In the example above, the flame 
strike would function as if cast by a 10th-level priest.
The mystic transfer does not require concentration. However, on any round in which 
a priest is receiving and/or transferring a spell, the caster cannot take any other significant 
action.
A priest can receive spells only from priests who worship the same deity and who 
specifically target spells to him. Area effect spells may be passed. A priest can never use 
mystic transfer to pluck an opponent's spells out of the air. 

 Nap (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: One creature/level 
Saving Throw: None
Creatures affected by this spell are put to sleep for one hour. Upon awakening, the 
creature is as refreshed as if he had slept for eight hours. The affected person recovers 
lost hit points as if he rested for a full night. Wizards can memorize spells as if real time 
had passed.
Because the rest is so complete and rejuvenating, a character does not feel fatigued 
after waking. Attempts to use nap more than once in an 18-hour period are ineffective 
(the character simply is not sleepy). Only willing subjects can be affected by nap.
The material components are a scrap of pillow ticking, a feather, and a pebble that the 
caster has kept in his pocket for seven nights.

 Obscurement
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 4 rds./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: (level x 10)-ft.-sq. Saving Throw: None
This spell causes a misty vapor to arise around the caster. It persists in this locale for
four rounds per caster level and reduces the visibility ranges of all types of vision
(including infravision) to 2d4 feet. The ground area affected by the spell is a square
progression based on the caster's level: a 10-foot x 10-foot area at 1st level, a 20-foot x
20-foot area at 2nd level, a 30-foot x 30-foot area at 3rd level, and so on. The height of
the vapor is restricted to 10 feet, although the cloud will otherwise expand to fill confined
spaces. A strong wind (such as from the 3rd-level wizard spell gust of wind) can cut the
duration of an obscurement spell by 75%. This spell does not function under water.

 Produce Flame
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
A bright flame, equal in brightness to a torch, springs forth from the caster's palm
when he casts a produce flame spell. The flame does not harm the caster, but it is hot and
it causes the combustion of flammable materials (paper, cloth, dry wood, oil, etc.). The
caster is capable of hurling the magical flame as a missile, with a range of 40 yards
(considered short range). The flame flashes on impact, igniting combustibles within a 3-
foot diameter of its center of impact, and then it goes out. A creature struck by the flame
suffers 1d4+1 points of damage and, if combustion occurs, must spend a round
extinguishing the fire or suffer additional damage assigned by the DM until the fire is
extinguished. A miss is resolved as a grenadelike missile. If any duration remains to the
spell, another flame immediately appears in the caster's hand. The caster can hurl a
maximum of one flame per level, but no more than one flame per round.
The caster can snuff out magical flame any time he desires, but fire caused by the
flame cannot be so extinguished. This spell does not function under water.

 Rally (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 240 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One unit of up to 300 individuals
Saving Throw: None 
This spell allows the subject unit to make an immediate rally check. It allows the 
check during the Magic Phase, rather than forcing the unit to wait for the Rally Phase in 
the BATTLESYSTEM™ rules. If the priest casting the spell is of 12th level or higher, 
the subject unit receives a +1 bonus to its rally check die roll. The priest must have an 
uninterrupted line of sight to the unit. 
The material component is a miniature duplicate of a pennant or standard that 
represents the cause for which the unit is fighting (such as a national flag or the blazon of 
the unit's liege lord). The pennant is consumed in the casting. 

 Resist Fire/Resist Cold
(Alteration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is placed upon a creature by a priest, the creature's body is toughened
to withstand heat or cold, as chosen by the caster. The spell grants the creature complete
immunity to mild conditions (standing naked in the snow or reaching into an ordinary fire
to pluck out a note). The recipient can somewhat resist intense heat or cold (whether
natural or magical in origin), such as red-hot charcoal, a large amount of burning oil,
flaming swords, fire storms, fireballs, meteor swarms, red dragon's breath, frostbrand
swords, ice storms, wands of frost, or white dragon's breath. In all of these cases, the
temperature affects the creature to some extent. The recipient of the spell gains a bonus of
+3 to saving throws against such attack forms and all damage sustained is reduced by
50%; therefore, if the saving throw is failed, the creature sustains one-half damage, and if
the saving throw is successful, the creature sustains only one-quarter damage. Resistance
to fire lasts for one round for each experience level of the priest placing the spell.
The caster needs a drop of mercury as the material component of this spell.

 Sanctify (Conjuration/Summoning) Reversible 
Sphere: All
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10 yard 0 10 yard square/priest
Saving Throw: None
This cooperative spell allows the priests to create a beneficial atmosphere within a 
specified area. Companions of similar alignment to the casters will feel fortified and 
encouraged while in the sanctified area. The spell can be cast by a single priest or a group 
of priests. After casting sanctify, the affected area is imbued with the deity's majesty. For 
followers of that deity, the area radiates a holy aura. These followers gain a +2 bonus to 
saving throws against all fear- and charm-based powers (a +2 to morale for 
BATTLESYSTEM™ rules units). Persons of the same alignment as the caster but of 
different faiths gain a +1 to saving throws (+1 in BATTLESYSTEM rules). The effect 
applies only as long as the characters remain in the sanctified area.
Creatures intent on harming the priest or his followers suffer a -1 on saving throws vs. 
fear and charm (-1 to morale for BATTLESYSTEM rules units) when on sanctified 
ground.
Undead creatures within the area are easier to turn; any priest standing on sanctified 
ground turns undead as if he were one level higher.
Although this spell can be cast by a single priest, it is most effective when cast by 
several priests at once. The duration of the spell is equal to one round per level of the 
caster. When several priests cast the spell, the level of the most powerful priest is used, 
with two rounds added for every contributing priest.
 Thus, one 8th-level and three 6thlevel priests would give the spell a duration of 14 rounds (8+2+2+2).
Sanctify is often used in conjunction with focus to protect the grounds of a temple or 
encourage men defending a castle.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a handful of dirt from the 
grounds of an existing temple of the same faith.
The reverse of this spell, defile, functions in an identical manner with respect to 
saving throws for charm and fear. However, priests standing on defiled ground who 
attempt to turn undead do so at one level lower than their current level.
The material components for the reverse are the priest's holy symbol and a handful of 
earth from a grave. 

 Silence, 15' Radius
(Alteration)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 15-ft.-radius Saving Throw: None
Upon casting this spell, complete silence prevails in the affected area. All sound is
stopped: Conversation is impossible, spells cannot be cast (or at least not those with
verbal components, if the optional component rule is used), and no noise whatsoever
issues from or enters the area. The spell can be cast into the air or upon an object, but the
effect is stationary unless cast on a mobile object or creature. The spell lasts two rounds
for each level of experience of the priest. The spell can be centered upon a creature, and
the effect then radiates from the creature and moves as it moves. An unwilling creature
receives a saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw is successful, the spell effect
is centered about 1 foot behind the position of the subject creature at the instant of
casting. This spell provides a defense against sound-based attacks, such as harpy singing,
horn of blasting, etc.

 Slow Poison
(Necromancy)
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When this spell is placed upon a poisoned individual, it greatly slows the effects of
venom, if cast upon the victim before the poison takes full effect. (This period, known as
the onset time, is known to the DM.) While this spell does not neutralize the venom, it
does prevent it from substantially harming the individual for the duration of its magic in
the hope that, during that spell period, the poison can be fully cured.
The material components of the slow poison spell are the priest's holy symbol and a
bud of garlic that must be crushed and smeared on the wound (or eaten if poison was
ingested).

 Snake Charm
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Animal
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 30-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a hypnotic pattern is set up that causes one or more snakes to
cease all activity except a semierect, swaying movement. If the snakes are charmed while
in a torpor, the duration of the spell is 1d4+2 turns; if the snakes are not torpid, but are
not aroused and angry, the charm lasts 1d3 turns; if the snakes are angry or attacking, the
spell lasts 1d4+4 rounds. The priest casting the spell can charm snakes whose total hit
points are less than or equal to those of the priest. On the average, a 1st-level priest could
charm snakes with a total of 4 or 5 hit points; a 2nd-level priest could charm 9 hit points,
etc. The hit points can be those of a single snake or those of several of the reptiles, but the
total hit points cannot exceed those of the priest casting the spell. A 23-hit point caster
charming a dozen 2-hit point snakes would charm 11 of them. This spell is also effective
against any ophidian or ophidianoid monster, such as naga, couatl, etc., subject to magic
resistance, hit points, and so forth.
Variations of this spell may exist, allowing other creatures significant to a particular
mythos to be affected. Your DM will inform you if such spells exist.

 Speak With Animals
(Alteration)
Sphere: Animal, Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 animal within 30 ft. Saving Throw: None
This spell empowers the priest to comprehend and communicate with any warm- or
cold-blooded normal or giant animal that is not mindless. The priest is able to ask
questions of and receive answers from the creature, although friendliness and cooperation
are by no means assured. Furthermore, terseness and evasiveness are likely in basically
wary and cunning creatures (the more stupid ones will instead make inane comments). If
the animal is friendly or of the same general alignment as the priest, it may do some favor
or service for the priest (as determined by the DM). Note that this spell differs from the
speak with monsters spell, for this spell allows conversation only with normal or giant
nonfantastic creatures such as apes, bears, cats, dogs, elephants, and so on.

 Spiritual Hammer
(Invocation)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By calling upon his deity, the caster of a spiritual hammer spell brings into existence a
field of force shaped vaguely like a hammer. As long as the caster concentrates upon the
hammer, it strikes at any opponent within its range, as desired. Each round the caster can
choose to attack the same target as the previous round or switch to a new target that he
can see anywhere within his maximum range. The spiritual hammer's chance to
successfully hit is equal to that of the caster, without any Strength bonuses. In addition, it
strikes as a magical weapon with a bonus of +1 for every six experience levels (or
fraction) of the spellcaster, up to a total of +3 to the attack roll and +3 to the damage roll
for a 13th-level caster. The base damage inflicted when it scores a hit is exactly the same
as a normal war hammer (1d4+1 points on opponents of man size or smaller, or 1d4
points on larger opponents, plus the magical bonus). The hammer strikes in the same
direction as the caster is facing, so if he is behind the target, all bonuses for rear attack are
gained along with the loss of any modifications to the target's AC for shield and
Dexterity.
As soon as the caster ceases concentration, the spiritual hammer spell ends. A dispel
magic spell that includes either the caster or the force in its area of effect has a chance to
dispel the spiritual hammer. If an attacked creature has magic resistance, the resistance is
checked the first time the spiritual hammer strikes. If the hammer is successfully resisted,
the spell is lost. If not, the hammer has its normal full effect for the duration of the spell.
The material component of this spell is a normal war hammer that the priest must hurl
toward opponents while uttering a plea to his deity. The hammer disappears when the
spell is cast.

 Trip
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 object up to 10 ft. long Saving Throw: Neg.
This magic must be cast upon a normal object--a length of vine, a stick, a pole, a rope,
or a similar object. The spell causes the object to rise slightly off the ground or floor it is
resting on to trip most creatures crossing it, if they fail their saving throws vs. spell. Note
that only as many creatures can be tripped as are actually stepping across the enchanted
object. Thus, a 3-foot-long piece of rope could trip only one man-sized creature.
Creatures moving at a very rapid pace (running) when tripped suffer 1 point of damage
and are stunned for 1d4+1 rounds if the surface they fall upon is very hard (if it is turf or
other soft material, they are merely stunned for the rest of that round). Very large
creatures, such as elephants, are not affected at all by a trip spell. The object continues to
trip all creatures passing over it, including the spellcaster, for as long as the spell duration
lasts. A creature aware of the object and its potential adds a +4 bonus to its saving throw
roll when crossing the object. The enchanted object is 80% undetectable unless a means
that detects magical traps is employed or the operation of the spell is observed. This spell
does not function under water.

 Warp Wood
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Plant
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
When this spell is cast, the priest causes a volume of wood to bend and warp,
permanently destroying its straightness, form, and strength. The range of a warp wood
spell is 10 yards for each level of experience of the caster. It affects approximately a 15-
inch shaft of wood of up to 1-inch diameter per level of the caster. Thus, at 1st level, a
caster might be able to warp a hand axe handle or four crossbow bolts; at 5th level, he
could warp the shaft of a typical spear. Note that boards or planks can also be affected,
causing a door to be sprung or a boat or ship to leak. Warped missile weapons are
useless; warped melee weapons suffer a -4 penalty to their attack rolls.
Enchanted wood is affected only if the spellcaster is of higher level than the caster of
the prior enchantment. The spellcaster has a 20% cumulative chance of success per level
of difference (20% if one level higher, 40% if two levels higher, etc.). Thus, a door
magically held or wizard locked by a 5th-level wizard is 40% likely to be affected by a
warp wood spell cast by a 7th-level priest. Wooden magical items are considered
enchanted at 12th level (or better). Extremely powerful items, such as artifacts, are
unaffected by this spell.
The reversed spell, straighten wood, straightens bent or crooked wood, or reverses the
effects of a warp wood spell, subject to the same restrictions.

 Withdraw
(Alteration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
By means of a withdraw spell, the priest in effect alters the flow of time with regard to
himself. While but one round of time passes for those not affected by the spell, the priest
is able to spend two rounds, plus one round per level, in contemplation. Thus, a 5th-level
priest can withdraw for seven rounds to cogitate on some matter while one round passes
for all others. (The DM should allow the player one minute of real time per round
withdrawn to ponder some problem or question. No discussion with other players is
permitted.) Note that while affected by the withdraw spell, the caster can use only the
following spells: any divination spell or any curing or healing spell, the latter on himself
only. The casting of any of these spells in different fashion (for example, a cure light
wounds spell bestowed upon a companion) negates the withdraw spell. Similarly, the
withdrawn caster cannot walk or run, become invisible, or engage in actions other than
thinking, reading, and the like. He can be affected by the actions of others, losing any
Dexterity or shield bonus. Any successful attack upon the caster breaks the spell.

 Wyvern Watch
(Evocation)
Sphere: Guardian
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: up to 8 hrs. Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is known as wyvern watch because of the insubstantial haze brought forth by
its casting, which vaguely resembles a wyvern. It is typically used to guard some area
against intrusion. Any creature approaching within 10 feet of the guarded area may be
affected by the "wyvern." Any creature entering the guarded area must roll a successful
saving throw vs. spell or stand paralyzed for one round per level of the caster, until freed
by the spellcaster, by a dispel magic spell, or by a remove paralysis spell. A successful
saving throw indicates that the subject creature was missed by the attack of the wyvernform,
 and the spell remains in place. As soon as a subject creature is successfully struck
by the wyvern-form, the paralysis takes effect and the force of the spell dissipates. The
spell force likewise dissipates if no intruder is struck by the wyvern-form for eight hours
after the spell is cast. Any creature approaching the space being guarded by the wyvernform
 may be able to detect its presence before coming close enough to be attacked; this
chance of detection is 90% in bright light, 30% in twilight conditions, and 0% in
darkness.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.

 Zone of Truth (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 5-foot square/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell prevents creatures within the area of effect (or those who enter it) from 
speaking any deliberate and knowing lies. Creatures are allowed a saving throw to avoid 
the effects; those who fail the save are affected fully. Affected characters are aware of 
this enchantment; therefore, they may avoid answering questions to which they would 
normally respond with a lie or they may be evasive as long as they remain within the 
boundaries of the truth. When a character leaves the area, he is free to speak as he 
chooses.
The spell affects a square whose sides are five feet long per level of the caster; thus, a 
4th-level priest could affect a 20 foot by 20 foot square.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a phony emerald, ruby, or 
diamond. 