Spells work file Tier 5

School\Sphere:( Spell Schools are Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Nature, Psionic, Arcane, Acid, Necrotic, Divine, and Shadow)
Tier:  1
Range: ( Base is Tier X .5 meters) 
Components: (V = verbal, S = Somatic, M = Material)
Duration:  
Casting Time: (Base is Tier X 10)
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell:  
Saving Throw: (25 + relevant attribute score and other modifiers, Percentage roll must roll under percentage chance)
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description:

Fifth-Level Spells

 Name: 
School\Sphere: 
Tier: 5 
Range:  
Components: [is always Spell Name] V , [Varies] S , [Varies] M 
Duration:  
Casting Time: 
Area of Effect: 
Effects of Spell: 
                :: Friendly Effects :  
                :: Hostile Effects :  
Saving Throw: 
Subtlety: 
Knockdown: 
Sensory:  
Critical: 
Description: 


 Advanced Illusion
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 rd 
Area of Effect: One 40-ft. cube + Saving Throw: Special
one 10-ft. cube/level
This spell is essentially a spectral forces spell that operates through a program (similar
to a programmed illusion spell) determined by the caster. It is thus unnecessary for the
wizard to concentrate on the spell for longer than the round of casting it, as the program
has then started and will continue without supervision. The illusion has visual, audio,
olfactory, and thermal components. If any viewer actively attempts to disbelieve the
spell, he gains a saving throw vs. spell. If any viewer successfully disbelieves and
communicates this fact to other viewers, each such viewer gains a saving throw vs. spell
with a +4 bonus.
The material components are a bit of fleece and several grains of sand.

 Animate Flame
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1-ft. diameter/level Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Large visual, Critical: Varies
moderate tactile/olfactory
While using this spell, the priest can command a flame to leave its source of fuel 
and move at his direction. The flame is magically preserved at the intensity it possessed 
when animated and does not weaken or fail even if it has nothing to burn. The priest can 
affect any natural fire within range, but magical fires (including breath weapons) can only 
be animated and controlled on a roll of 11 or higher on a d20, –1 per level or Hit Dice 
difference between the caster and the creature or spellcaster who created the flame in 
question. For example, a 9th-level priest can animate a flaming sphere cast by a 4th level 
wizard on a roll of 6 or better on 1d20. In order to animate instantaneous effects such as a 
red dragon’s breath or a fireball, the priest must beat his opponent’s initiative in the 
round he casts this spell and succeed in his attempt to take control of the flame.
Under the priest’s direction, an animated flame can move at a rate of 12, although 
it cannot cross water or wet or muddy ground. If the priest directs the flame to leave the 
spell’s range, the spell ends and the flame stops and burns whatever it may be resting on. 
Animate flame can be a very effective weapon; the fire attacks with a THAC0 of 10 and 
may be able to strike several creatures in the same round, depending on its size. It inflicts 
damage as shown below:


Size             | Diameter         |  Number of Targets |  Damage
Torch or lantern |  less than 1 ft. |  1                 |  1d3
Small campfire   |  1–2 ft.         |  1                 |  1d4
Large campfire   |  3–5 ft.         |  2                 |  1d6
Bonfire          |  6–10 ft.        |  4                 |  2d6
Conflagration    |  11–20 ft.       |  8                 |  3d6
Inferno          |  21 ft. or more  |  20                |  5d6

Creatures actually caught within the fire’s diameter are automatically hit (without 
an attack roll) for the listed damage. Very hot or unusually cold fires may inflict damage 
(at the DM’s discretion) as if they were one category larger or smaller. In addition to 
attacking the caster’s enemies, the fire will naturally cause any combustibles it comes 
into contact with to burn, as well; an animated fire can easily torch a small town, given a 
few rounds to move from building to building.
The animated flame can be dispelled normally. It can also be defeated by contact 
with a significant volume of water, ice, cold, or earth or dirt, just as a normal fire can be 
drowned or smothered.
The priest can affect a single fire of up to 1 foot in diameter per level of 
experience; if a natural fire is too large for him to animate, he can animate a smaller 
portion of it and command the portion he controls. Magical fires cannot be divided in this 
way, so it requires a very high-level priest to deflect the breath weapon of a red dragon!

 Airy Water
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
sphere or 15-ft. radius hemisphere
The airy water spell turns normal liquid, such as water or water-based solutions, into a
less dense, breathable substance. Thus, if the wizard wanted to enter an underwater place,
he would step into the water, cast the spell, and sink downward in a globe of bubbling
water. He and any companions in the spell's area of effect can move freely and breathe
just as if the bubbling water were air. The globe is centered on and moves with the caster.
Water-breathing creatures avoid a sphere (or hemisphere) of airy water, although
intelligent ones can enter it if they are able to move by means other than swimming. No
water-breathers can breathe in an area affected by this spell. There is only one word that
needs to be spoken to actuate the magic; thus, it can be cast under water. The spell does
not filter or remove solid particles of matter.
The material component of the spell is a small handful of alkaline or bromine salts.

 Animal Growth
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Up to 8 animals Saving Throw: None
in a 20-ft. cube
When this spell is cast, the wizard causes all designated animals, up to a maximum of
eight, within a 20-foot-square area to grow to twice their normal size. The effects of this
growth are doubled Hit Dice (with improvement in attack rolls) and doubled damage in
combat. The spell lasts for one round for each level of experience of the wizard casting
the spell. Only natural animals, including giant forms, can be affected by this spell.
The reverse, shrink animal, reduces animal size by half and likewise reduces Hit Dice,
attack damage, etc.
The component of both versions of the spell is a pinch of powdered bone.

 Animate Dead
(Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5 rds.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell creates the lowest of the undead monsters--skeletons or zombies--usually
from the bones or bodies of dead humans, demihumans, or humanoids. The spell causes
existing remains to become animated and obey the simple verbal commands of the caster.
The skeletons or zombies can follow the caster, remain in an area and attack any creature
(or just a specific type of creature) entering the place, etc. The undead remain animated
until they are destroyed in combat or are turned; the magic cannot be dispelled. The
following types of dead creatures can be animated:
A) Humans, demihumans, and humanoids with 1 Hit Die. The wizard can animate one
skeleton for each experience level he has attained, or one zombie for every two levels.
The experience levels, if any, of the slain are ignored; the body of a newly dead 9th-level
fighter is animated as a zombie with 2 Hit Dice, without special class or racial abilities.
B) Creatures with more than 1 Hit Die. The number of undead animated is determined
by the monster Hit Dice (the total Hit Dice cannot exceed the wizard's level). Skeletal
forms have the Hit Dice of the original creature, while zombie forms have one more Hit
Die. Thus, a 12th-level wizard could animate four zombie gnolls (4 x [2+1 Hit Dice] =
12), or a single fire giant skeleton. Such undead have none of the special abilities they
had in life.
C) Creatures with less than 1 Hit Die. The caster can animate two skeletons per level
or one zombie per level. The creatures have their normal Hit Dice as skeletons and an
additional Hit Die as zombies. Clerics receive a +1 bonus when trying to turn these.
This spell assumes that the bodies or bones are available and are reasonably intact
(those of skeletons or zombies destroyed in combat won't be!).
It requires a drop of blood and a pinch of bone powder or a bone shard to complete the
spell. The casting of this spell is not a good act, and only evil wizards use it frequently.

 Avoidance
(Abjuration, Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent until dispelled Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Up to 3-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
By means of this spell, the caster sets up a natural repulsion between the affected
object and all other living things except himself. Thus, any living creature attempting to
touch the affected object is repulsed (unable to come closer than 1 foot), or repulses the
affected object, depending on the relative mass of the two (a halfling attempting to touch
an iron chest with an avoidance spell upon it will be thrown back, while the chest will
skitter away from a giant-sized creature as the creature approaches).
The material component for the spell is a magnetized needle. The spell cannot be cast
upon living things; any attempt to cast avoidance upon the apparel or possessions of a
living creature entitles the subject creature to a saving throw vs. spell.
The reverse of this spell, attraction, uses the same material components and sets up a
natural attraction between the affected object and all living things. A creature is drawn to
the object if the creature is smaller, or the object slides toward the creature if the creature
is larger. It takes a successful bend bars/lift gates roll to remove the enchanted object
once it has adhered to an object or creature.

 Bigby's Interposing Hand
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The Bigby's interposing hand spell creates a man-sized to gargantuan-sized magical
hand that appears between the spellcaster and his chosen opponent. This disembodied
hand then moves to remain between the two, regardless of what the spellcaster does or
how the opponent tries to get around it. Neither invisibility nor polymorph fools the hand
once a creature has been chosen. The hand does not pursue an opponent.
The size of the hand is determined by the wizard, and it can be from human size (5
feet) all the way up to titan size (25 feet). It provides cover for the caster against the
selected opponent, with all the attendant combat adjustments. It has as many hit points as
the caster in full health and has an Armor Class of 0.
Any creature weighing less than 2,000 pounds trying to push past the hand is slowed to
half its normal movement. If the original opponent is slain, the caster can designate a new
opponent for the hand. The caster can command the hand out of existence at any time.
The material component of the spell is a soft glove.

 Chaos
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Up to 40-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
This spell is similar to the 4th-level confusion spell, but only the following beings
receive a saving throw: fighters, wizards specialized in enchantments, monsters that use
no magic and have an Intelligence of 4 or less, creatures of 21 Intelligence or higher, and
creatures with more levels or Hit Dice than the caster's level.
The spell causes disorientation and severe perceptual distortion, creating indecision
and the inability to take effective action. The spell affects 1d4 creatures, plus one creature
per caster level. Those allowed saving throws roll them vs. spell with -2 penalties,
adjusted for Wisdom. Those who successfully save are unaffected by the spell. Affected
creatures react as follows:

D10 Roll | Action
 1       | Wander away (unless prevented) for duration of spell
2-6      | Stand confused for one round (then roll again)
7-9      | Attack nearest creature for one round (then roll again)
 10      | Act normally for one round (then roll again)

The spell lasts one round for each level of the caster. Those affected are checked by the
DM for actions each round for the duration of the spell, or until the "wander away for the
duration of the spell" result occurs.
Wandering creatures move as far from the caster as possible using their most typical
mode of movement (characters walk, fish swim, bats fly, etc.). Saving throws and actions
are checked at the beginning of each round. Any confused creature that is attacked
perceives the attacker as an enemy and acts according to its basic nature.
The material component for this spell is a small disc of bronze and a small rod of iron.

 Cloudkill
(Evocation)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 40 x 20 x 20 ft. cloud Saving Throw: None
This spell generates a billowing cloud of ghastly yellowish green vapors that is so toxic
as to slay any creature with fewer than 4+1 Hit Dice, cause creatures with 4+1 to 5+1 Hit
Dice to roll saving throws vs. poison with -4 penalties or be slain, and creatures with up
to 6 Hit Dice (inclusive) to roll unmodified saving throws vs. poison or be slain. Holding
one's breath has no effect on the lethality of the spell. Those above 6th level (or 6 Hit
Dice) must leave the cloud immediately or suffer 1d10 points of poison damage each
round while in the area of effect.
The cloudkill moves away from the spellcaster at 10 feet per round, rolling along the
surface of the ground. A moderate breeze causes it to alter course (roll for direction), but
it does not move back toward its caster. A strong wind breaks it up in four rounds, and a
greater wind force prevents the use of the spell. Very thick vegetation will disperse the
cloud in two rounds. As the vapors are heavier than air, they sink to the lowest level of
the land, even pouring down den or sinkhole openings; thus, the spell is ideal for slaying
nests of giant ants, for example. It cannot penetrate liquids, nor can it be cast under water.

 Cone of Cold
(Evocation)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: _
When this spell is cast, it causes a cone-shaped area of extreme cold, originating at the
wizard's hand and extending outward in a cone 5 feet long and 1 foot in diameter per
level of the caster. It drains heat and causes 1d4+1 points of damage per level of
experience of the wizard. For example, a 10th-level wizard would cast a cone of cold 10
feet in diameter and 50 feet long, causing 10d4+10 points of damage.
Its material component is a crystal or glass cone of very small size.

 Conjure Elemental
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
There are actually four spells in the conjure elemental spell. The wizard is able to
conjure an air, earth, fire, or water elemental with this spell--assuming he has the material
component for the particular elemental. (A considerable fire source must be in range to
conjure a fire elemental; a large amount of water must be available to conjure a water
elemental.) Conjured elementals have 8 Hit Dice.
It is possible to conjure successive elementals of different types if the spellcaster has
memorized two or more of these spells. The type of elemental to be conjured must be
decided upon before memorizing the spell. Each type of elemental can be conjured only
once per day.
The conjured elemental must be controlled by the wizard--the spellcaster must
concentrate on the elemental doing his commands--or it turns on the wizard and attacks.
The elemental will not break off a combat to do so, but it will avoid creatures while
seeking its conjurer. If the wizard is wounded or grappled, his concentration is broken.
There is always a 5% chance that the elemental turns on its conjurer regardless of
concentration. This check is made at the end of the second and each succeeding round.
An elemental that breaks free of its control can be dispelled by the caster, but the chance
of success is only 50%. The elemental can be controlled up to 30 yards away per level of
the spellcaster. The elemental remains until its form on this plane is destroyed due to
damage or until the spell's duration expires. Note that water elementals are destroyed if
they are ever more than 60 yards from a large body of water.
The material component of the spell (besides the quantity of the element at hand) is a
small amount of one of the following:

Air Elemental--burning incense
Earth Elemental--soft clay
Fire Elemental--sulphur and phosphorus
Water Elemental--water and sand

Special protection from uncontrolled elementals is available by means of a protection
from evil spell.

 Contact Other Plane
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard sends his mind to another plane of existence in order
to receive advice and information from powers there. As these powers resent such
contact, only brief answers are given. (The DM answers all questions with "yes," "no,"
"maybe," "never," "irrelevant," etc.) Any questions asked are answered by the power
during the spell's duration. The character can contact an elemental plane or some plane
farther removed. For every two levels of experience of the wizard, one question may be
asked. Contact with minds far removed from the plane of the wizard increases the
probability of the spellcaster going insane or dying, but the chance of the power knowing
the answer, as well as the probability of the being telling the correct answer, are likewise
increased by moving to distant planes. Once the Outer Planes are reached, the
Intelligence of the power contacted determines the effects.
The accompanying random table is subject to DM changes, development of extraplanar
NPC beings, and so on.
If insanity occurs, it strikes as soon as the first question is asked. This condition lasts
for one week for each removal of the plane contacted (see the DMG or the Planescape™
Campaign Setting boxed set), to a maximum of 10 weeks. There is a 1% chance per plane
that the wizard dies before recovering, unless a remove curse spell is cast upon him. A
surviving wizard can recall the answer to the question.
On rare occasions, this divination may be blocked by the action of certain lesser or
greater powers.

                     | Chance of  | Chance of | Chance of
Plane                | Insanity * | Knowledge | Veracity **
Elemental Plane      | 20%        | 55% (90%) | 62% (75%)
Inner Plane          | 25%        | 60%       | 65%
Astral Plane         | 30%        | 65%       | 67%
Outer Plane, Int 19  | 35%        | 70%       | 70%
Outer Plane, Int 20  | 40%        | 75%       | 73%
Outer Plane, Int 21  | 45%        | 80%       | 75%
Outer Plane, Int 22  | 50%        | 85%       | 78%
Outer Plane, Int 23  | 55%        | 90%       | 81%
Outer Plane, Int 24  | 60%        | 95%       | 85%
Outer Plane, Int 25  | 65%        | 98%       | 90%
* For every point of Intelligence over 15, the wizard reduces the chance of insanity by
5%.

** If the being does not know an answer, and the chance of veracity is not made, the
being will emphatically give an incorrect answer. If the chance of veracity is made, the
being will answer "unknown."
Percentages in parentheses are for questions that pertain to the appropriate elemental
plane.
Optional Rule
The DM may allow a specific Outer Plane to be contacted (see the Planescape
Campaign Setting boxed set). In this case, the difference in alignment between the caster
and the plane contacted alters the maximum Intelligence that can be contacted--each
difference in moral or ethical alignment lowers the maximum Intelligence that can be
contacted by 1. For example, an 18th-level lawful good caster could contact Mount
Celestia (a lawful good plane) on the "Intelligence 20" line, or Elysium (a neutral good
plane) on the "Intelligence 19" line.

 Demishadow Monsters
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube Saving Throw: Special
This spell is similar to the 4th-level spell shadow monsters, except that the monsters
created are effectively 40% of normal hit points. If the saving throw is made, their
damage potential is only 40% of normal and their Armor Class is 8. The monsters have
none of the special abilities of the real creatures, although victims may be deluded into
believing this to be so.

 Dimensional Translocation
(Alteration)
Sphere: Numbers, Summoning
Range: 60 yds. Components: S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +1 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
By using this spell, the priest seals off the multidimensional existence of a 
magical, undead, or extraplanar creature. The affected creature can be forced entirely into 
its extraplanar dimension, which removes it from the physical world, or its extraplanar 
existence can be severed, forcing it entirely into the Prime Material Plane. If the priest’s 
level exceeds the subject’s level or Hit Dice, the subject is not allowed a saving throw, 
but creatures of higher level or Hit Dice than the caster are entitled to a saving throw vs. 
spell to negate the effect. Also note that magic resistance may apply, as well.
If used to banish an extraplanar or multidimensional creature, dimensional 
translocation prevents the creature from returning to the Prime Material Plane for the 
duration of the spell. The creature may be able to take other actions, such as using 
magical items or spell-like abilities on itself while it waits to return. If the caster instead 
forces an extradimensional creature into the Prime Material Plane, one or more of the 
following effects may apply, at the DM’s option:

  The creature’s Armor Class may be reduced by 1d6 points for the duration of the 
  spell.
  The quality of a magical weapon needed to strike the creature may be reduced by 
  one “plus”; for example, a monster normally hit by +2 or better weapons may 
  become vulnerable to +1 weapons for the spell’s duration.
  The creature may suffer permanent death upon the loss of all its hit points.
  Use of 1d6 spell-like powers (such as gating in allies) may be limited or negated.
  Undead creatures lose the ability to drain life energy levels.

This spell does not prevent extradimensional travel on the Prime Material Plane 
(i.e., dimension door, blinking, teleport, or similar effects), but it does prevent the subject 
from plane shifting or becoming ethereal while in effect.

 Dismissal
(Abjuration)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, a wizard on the Prime Material Plane seeks to force or enable a
creature from another plane of existence to return to its proper plane. Magic resistance, if
any, is checked if this spell is used to force a being home. If the resistance fails, the
caster's level is compared to the creature's level or Hit Dice. If the wizard's level is
higher, the difference is subtracted from the creature's die roll for its saving throw vs.
spell. If the creature's level or Hit Dice is higher, the difference is added to the saving
throw roll.
If the creature desires to be returned to its home plane, no saving throw is necessary (it
chooses to fail the roll).
If the spell is successful, the creature is instantly whisked away, but the spell has a
20% chance of actually sending the subject to a plane other than its own.
The material component is any item that is distasteful to the subject creature.

 Distance Distortion
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns/level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
This spell can be cast only in an area completely surrounded or enclosed by earth,
rock, sand, or similar materials. The wizard must also cast a conjure elemental spell to
summon an earth elemental. The elemental serves without attempting to break free when
the spellcaster announces that his intent is to cast a distance distortion spell. The spell
places the earth elemental in the area of effect, and the elemental then causes the area's
dimensions to be either doubled or halved for those traveling over it (spellcaster's
choice). Thus, a 10-foot x 100-foot corridor could seem to be either 5 feet wide and 50
feet long or 20 feet wide and 200 feet long. When the spell duration has elapsed, the
elemental returns to its own plane.
The true nature of an area affected by distance distortion is undetectable to any
creature traveling along it, but the area dimly radiates magic, and a true seeing spell can
reveal that an earth elemental is spread within the area.
The material needed for this spell is a small lump of soft clay.

 Domination
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: Neg.
The domination spell enables the caster to control the actions of any person until the
spell is ended by the subject's Intelligence (see the charm person spell). Elves and halfelves
 resist this enchantment as they do all charm-type spells. When the spell is cast, the
subject must roll a saving throw vs. spell at a penalty of -2, but Wisdom adjustments
apply. Failure means the wizard has established a telepathic link with the subject's mind.
If a common language is shared, the wizard can generally force the subject to perform as
the wizard desires, within the limits of the subject's body structure and Strength. Note
that the caster does not receive direct sensory input from the subject.
Subjects resist this control, and those forced to take actions against their natures
receive a new saving throw with a bonus of +1 to +4, depending on the type of action
required. Obviously self-destructive orders are not carried out. Once control is
established, there is no limit to the range at which it can be exercised, as long as the
caster and subject are on the same plane.
A protection from evil spell can prevent the caster from exercising control or using the
telepathic link while the subject is so warded, but it cannot prevent the establishment of
domination.

 Dream
(Invocation, Illusion/Phantasm)
Reversible
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The dream spell enables the caster, or a messenger touched by the caster, to send
messages to others in the form of dreams. At the beginning of the spell, the caster must
name the recipient or identify him by some title that leaves no doubt as to his identity.
As the caster completes the spell, the person sending the spell falls into a deep
trancelike sleep, and instantaneously projects his mind to the recipient. The sender then
enters the recipient's dream and delivers the message unless the recipient is magically
protected. If the recipient is awake, the message sender can choose to remain in the
trancelike sleep. If the sender is disturbed during this time, the spell is immediately
cancelled and the sender comes out of the trance. The whereabouts and current activities
of the recipient cannot be learned through this spell.
The sender is unaware of his own surroundings or the activities around him while he is
in his trance. He is totally defenseless, both physically and mentally (i.e., he always fails
any saving throw) while in the trance.
Once the recipient's dreams are entered, the sender can deliver a message of any
length, which the recipient remembers perfectly upon waking. The communication is
one-way; the recipient cannot ask questions or offer information, nor can the sender gain
any information by observing the dreams of the recipient. Once the message is delivered,
the sender's mind returns instantly to his body. The duration of the spell is the time
required for the sender to enter the recipient's dream and deliver the message.
The reverse of this spell, nightmare, enables the caster to send a hideous and unsettling
vision to the recipient, who is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect. The
nightmare prevents restful sleep and causes 1d10 points of damage. The nightmare leaves
the recipient fatigued and unable to regain spells for the next day. A dispel evil spell cast
upon the recipient stuns the caster of the nightmare for one turn per level of the cleric
countering this evil sending.

 Extension II
(Alteration)
Range: 0 Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell is the same as the 4th-level extension I spell, except it extends the duration
of 1st-through 4th-level spells by 50%.

 Fabricate
(Enchantment, Alteration)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: 1 cu. yd./level Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to convert material of one sort into a product
that is of the same material. Thus, the spellcaster can fabricate a wooden bridge from a
clump of trees, a rope from a patch of hemp, clothes from flax or wool, and so forth.
Magical or living things cannot be created or altered by a fabricate spell. The quality of
items made by this spell is commensurate with the quality of material used as the basis
for the new fabrication. If the caster works with a mineral, the area of effect is reduced by
a factor of 27 (1 cubic foot per level instead of 1 cubic yard).
Articles requiring a high degree of craftsmanship (jewelry, swords, glass, crystal, etc.)
cannot be fabricated unless the wizard otherwise has great skill in the appropriate craft.
Casting requires one full round per cubic yard (or foot) or material to be affected by
the spell.

 False Vision
(Divination)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard is able to confound any attempt to scry (by means of
either a spell or a magical device) any point within the area of effect of the spell. To use
the spell, he must be aware of the scrying attempt, although knowledge of the scryer or
the scryer's location is not necessary. Upon casting the spell, the caster and all he desires
within the radius of the spell become undetectable to the scrying. Furthermore, the caster
is able to send whatever message he desires, including vision and sound, according to the
medium of the scrying method. To do this, the caster must concentrate on the message he
is sending. Once concentration is broken, no further images can be sent, although the
caster remains undetectable for the duration of the spell.
The material component for this spell is the ground dust of an emerald worth at least
500 gp, which is sprinkled into the air when the spell is cast.

 Far Reaching III (Alteration) 
Range: 0
Component: V
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell operates exactly like the 3rd-level far reaching I spell except that the range 
of any spell of levels 1-3 is increased by 150% and the range of any 4th- or 5th-level spell 
is increased by 50%. 

 Feeblemind
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is used solely against people or creatures who use magic spells. The
feeblemind causes the subject's intellect to degenerate to that of a moronic child. The
subject remains in this state until a heal or wish spell is used to cancel the effects. Magic 
using beings are very vulnerable to this spell; thus, their saving throws are made with the
following adjustments:

Spell Use of Target       | Saving Throw Adjustment
Priest                    | +1
Wizard (human)            | -4
Combination or nonhuman   | -2

Wisdom adjustments apply to the saving throw.
The material component of this spell is a handful of clay, crystal, glass, or mineral
spheres, which disappears when the spell is cast.

 Force Shapechange (Necromancy)
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature/level
Saving Throw: 1/2
With this spell, the caster can force any shapechanger or magic-wielder using any 
form of a shapechanging spell to instantly revert to his true form (or his most common 
form). To use the spell, the caster points at creatures he knows or believes to be 
shapechangers. If the creatures are indeed shapechangers, they must make a successful 
saving throw or immediately revert to their true form and suffer 3-30 (3d10) hit points of 
damage from the wracking pain caused by the forced change. The change takes a full 
round, during which time a victim can take no other actions. If the saving throw was 
successful, the victim does not change form, but still suffers half damage (2d10/2). 
The material components for this spell are a hair from the hide of any lycanthrope and 
a live butterfly, released when the verbal component is uttered.

 Hold Monster
(Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1-4 creatures in Saving Throw: Neg.
a 40-ft. cube
This spell immobilizes from one to four creatures of any type within spell range and in
sight of the spellcaster. He can opt to hold one, two, three, or four creatures. If three or
four are attacked, each saving throw is normal; if two are attacked, each saving throw
suffers a -1 penalty; if only one is attacked, the saving throw suffers a -3 penalty.
The material component for this spell is one hard metal bar or rod for each monster to
be held. The bar or rod can be as small as a three-penny nail.

 Impregnable Mind
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Protection, Thought
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Creature touched Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
This spell guards the spell recipient against magical or psionic attacks that affect 
the mind. This includes beguiling, charm, domination, feeblemind, hold, and similar 
effects, as well as most telepathic psionic powers and attacks. Against magical 
influences, impregnable mind grants a +4 bonus to saving throws; if the attack normally 
allows no saving throw, the spell recipient may attempt one at no modifier. Against 
telepathic psionics, the spell inflicts a –6 penalty to the attacking psionicist’s power 
checks, making it more likely that a psionic attack or telepathic contact will fail. 
Impregnable mind offers no protection against nontelepathic psionics, such as a 
telekinetic thrashing or other psionics that affect the body.

 Improved Blink
(Alteration, Dimension)
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +2 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium visual Critical: None
Naturally, this spell is an improvement of the 3rd-level alteration spell blink, 
allowing the wizard to shift his body to any point within 15 feet of his current location. 
Unlike the lower-level spell, improved blink allows the wizard to choose the exact time of 
his jump, the exact destination, and the orientation or facing of his choosing. For 
example, a wizard confronted by an enemy fighter could blink just before the fighter 
attacked, reappearing directly behind his foe for a back attack. If the wizard blinks away 
from an attack, his enemy automatically misses—but creatures with multiple attacks may 
be able to reposition themselves for another swing if the wizard blinks to a location 
within reach.
If the wizard intends to take any action such as attacking, casting a spell, or using 
a magical item, he must decide before the round begins if he will do so before or after he 
blinks. If he acts before he blinks, he may be endangered by an attack before he finishes; 
he can choose to proceed with his action, hoping that he won’t be hit, or he can abort his 
action by taking his blink for the round. On the other hand, if the wizard begins his action 
after his blink, the initiative modifier of his attack or spell is added to the time of his 
blink to determine when he attacks.
A blinking wizard dueling a fighter decides to blink first, when the fighter attacks 
and then lightning bolt the offensive fellow. The fighter rolls a modified 6 for initiative, so 
the wizard waits until 6, then blinks, making the fighter miss. At that time, he starts his 
lightning bolt, which has a casting time of 3—the spell will go off on 9.
In the Player’s Option: Combat & Tactics initiative system, the wizard must count 
1, 2, or 3 phases from the time of his blink for fast, average, or slow actions. If the fighter 
above attacked in the average phase, the wizard would blink during the fighter’s attack, 
and then his lightning bolt (a fast spell) would go off 1 phase later, with any other slow 
actions.
Because the wizard can pick the location he is blinking to, he may not choose to 
blink into a movable object in order to force it aside—he must blink to an area clear of 
obstructions or obstacles. If he does attempt to blink into a movable object, he will find 
himself displaced to a random location (use the blink 1d8 rules in the PHB for 
determining where he 
ends up).

 Invulnerability to Normal Weapons (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: 5-foot radius
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates an immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere around the caster 
that cannot be penetrated by non-magical blunt weapons, edged weapons, or missile 
weapons. The caster can use these weapons from inside the sphere to attack opponents 
normally. Spells can also be cast through the sphere. The sphere can be negated by dispel 
magic. 
The material components for this spell are a piece of a broken non-magical weapon 
and a scale from a dragon

 Khazid's Procurement (Divination, Summoning) 
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the caster to more easily access rare or dangerous spell components. 
The wizard casts this spell upon a silver mirror while concentrating on a mental image of 
the material he desires. The base chance of success is 50%, modified by the following 
factors: 
•+1% per level of the caster
•+10% if the caster has seen the same type of substance or object before; this bonus is 
not cumulative with the following bonus 
•+20% if the caster has a sample of the material or the same type of object in his 
possession; this bonus is not cumulative with the bonus above 
•+30% if the wizard knows the location of the desired object 
•-50% if the caster has never seen the same type of material or item before 
If the percentile roll indicates failure, the caster is unable to locate the desired 
ingredient and the spell ends. If the roll indicates success, the wizard has located the 
object or substance and the mirror becomes a magical gate through which the caster can 
see the target. The size of the gate is determined by the size of the mirror, to a maximum 
size of 3 feet by 2 feet.
The gate always appears within arm's length of the target, allowing the wizard to 
reach through the mirror, grasp the object of his desire, and draw it back through the gate. 
The wizard must risk his own safety--the gate does not allow the use of probes, longhandled ladles, tongs, or other equipment to gather the material. The caster cannot move 
completely through the gate.
The gate vanishes when the spell's duration expires or when the target or the wizard 
moves more than 10' away from it.
The gate is visible from both sides, and other creatures can reach through the gate. 
Breath weapons, gaze attacks, missiles, spells, and similar attacks cannot be cast through 
the gate. Because creatures can pass their limbs through the gate, physical attacks and 
touch spells can be used.
The only limit to the range of this spell is that the caster and the target must be on the 
same plane of existence. Elemental forces (not creatures) will not pass through the gate. 
Thus, the wizard does not run the risk of flooding his laboratory by opening a gate 
beneath the sea, for example. However, the spell does not provide any sort of protection 
against a hostile environment.
The material components are an exquisite silver mirror of no less than 10,000 gp 
value and a black opal worth at least 1,000 gp which must be powdered and sprinkled on 
the mirror. The mirror is not lost after casting and may be used again, but the powdered 
opal is consumed in the casting. 

 Know Value (Divination) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
Know value enables the caster to know the total value of all coins, gems, and jewelry 
within the area of effect, within the limits that follow. 
The items must be clearly visible. They cannot be concealed on people, hidden in a 
chest, or buried in the ground. The items must also be contained within an area no larger 
than a 10-foot cube, and this area can be no farther than 10 yards from the caster. 
Further, know value will only reveal the value of 75% of the total number of objects in 
a treasure pile, up to a maximum of 10 pieces; the DM determines which pieces the spell 
affects, and the caster does not know which particular pieces have been appraised. The 
spell does not detect the presence or value of magical items, and it ignores the value of 
personal property, such as clothing, weapons, and other equipment. Know value does not 
reveal the number or nature of any type of hidden objects. 
The material components for this spell are a copper piece and a phony gem

 Leomund’s Hidden Lodge
(Alteration, Enchantment/Charm)
Range: 20 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 hrs. + 1 hr./level Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: 30 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +7 to +10 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
Similar in most regards to the 4th-level spell Leomund’s secure shelter, this spell 
offers one significant improvement: The shelter is perfectly camouflaged to blend in with 
whatever terrain or surroundings are appropriate. It may appear as a house-sized boulder 
in rocky or mountainous areas, a sand dune, a deadfall, a small grassy knoll, or even a 
mighty tree. The spell also conceals all telltale signs of habitation, including any smoke, 
light, or sound coming from within the lodge. Creatures or characters who are 
exceptionally well-tuned to their surroundings (elves, druids, rangers, and various sylvan 
monsters) may attempt a saving throw vs. spell to spot the hidden lodge if they pass 
within 30 feet; all other creatures cannot find the wizard’s refuge without the aid of true 
seeing or similar magic.
In all other respects, the hidden lodge resembles Leomund’s secure shelter. The 
interior is level, clean, and dry, and the whole thing is sturdily constructed from timber, 
stone, or sod. It is secure against winds of up to 100 miles per hour, impervious to normal 
missiles, and the doors, windows, and chimney have the option to be wizard locked and 
guarded by an alarm spell. Simple furnishings include up to ten bunks, a small writing 
desk, a trestle table and benches, and an optional unseen servant to wait on the wizard. (If 
any of the optional secondary spells are added on to this spell, then the casting time goes 
up to one hour and adds a +3 modifier to the subtlety rating.)
The material components are a square chip of stone, crushed lime, a few grains of 
sand, a sprinkle of water, and a splinter of wood, plus a crushed diamond worth at least 
100 gold pieces. If the secondary spells are to be included, their material components are 
required also.

 Leomund's Lamentable Belaborment
(Enchantment, Evocation)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 or more creatures Saving Throw: Special
in a 10-ft. radius
This devious spell distracts the subject creatures by drawing them into an absorbing
discussion on topics of interest to them. A chain of responses occurs during the next 11
rounds, with additional saving throws as described later. These responses are
conversation (rounds 1-3), possible confusion (rounds 4-6), and then either rage or
lamentation (rounds 7-11). All saving throws are affected by the creatures' Intelligences,
as noted later. The subject creatures must be able to understand the language in which the
spellcaster speaks.
Upon casting the spell, the wizard begins discussion of some topic germane to the
creature or creatures to be affected. Those making a successful saving throw vs. spell are
unaffected. Affected creatures immediately begin to converse with the spellcaster,
agreeing or disagreeing, all most politely. As long as the spellcaster chooses, he can
maintain the spell by conversing with the subject(s). If the caster is attacked or otherwise
distracted, the subject creatures do not notice.

Intelligence | Saving Throw Modifier
 2 or less   | Spell has no effect
 3-7         | -1
 8-10        | 0
11-14        | +1
 15+         | +2
The wizard can leave at any time after the casting and the subject(s) continue on as if
the caster were still present. As long as they are not attacked, the creatures ignore all else
going on around them, spending their time talking and arguing to the exclusion of other
activities. However, when the caster leaves, each subject completes only the stage of the
spell that it is currently in, and then the spell is broken.
If the caster maintains the spell for more than three rounds, each affected creature can
roll another saving throw vs. spell. Those failing to save wander off in confusion for
1d10+2 rounds, staying away from the spellcaster. Those who make this saving throw
continue to talk and roll saving throws for each round that the caster continues the spell,
up through the sixth round, to avoid the confusion effect.
If the spell is maintained for more than six rounds, each subject must roll a successful
saving throw vs. spell to avoid going into a rage, attacking all other subjects of the spell
with intent to kill. This rage lasts for 1d4+1 rounds. Those who successfully save against
the rage effect realize that they have been deceived and collapse to the ground, lamenting
their foolishness, for 1d4 rounds unless attacked or otherwise disturbed.

 Leomund's Secret Chest
(Alteration, Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 60 days Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One chest, about Saving Throw: None
2 x 2 x 3 ft.
This spell enables a specially constructed chest to be hidden deep within the Ethereal
Plane, to be summoned using a small model of the chest. The large chest must be
exceptionally well-crafted and expensive, constructed for the caster by master craftsmen.
If made principally of wood, it must be ebony, rosewood, sandalwood, teak, or the like,
and all of its corner fittings, nails, and hardware must be platinum. If constructed of
ivory, the metal fittings of the chest must be gold. If the chest is fashioned from bronze,
copper, or silver, its fittings must be electrum or silver. The cost of such a chest is never
less than 5,000 gp. Once it is constructed, the wizard must have a tiny replica (of the
same materials and perfect in every detail) made, so that the miniature of the chest
appears to be a perfect copy. One wizard can have but one pair of these chests at any
given time--even wish spells do not allow exceptions! The chests themselves are 
nonmagical, and can be fitted with locks, wards, and so on, just as any normal chest.
While touching the chest and holding the tiny replica, the caster chants the spell. This
causes the large chest to vanish into the Ethereal Plane. The chest can contain 1 cubic
foot of material per level of the wizard no matter what its apparent size. Living matter
makes it 75% likely that the spell fails, so the chest is typically used for securing valuable
spell books, magical items, gems, etc. As long as the spellcaster has the small duplicate
of the magical chest, he can recall the large one from the Ethereal Plane whenever the
chest is desired. If the miniature of the chest is lost or destroyed, there is no way, not
even with a wish spell, that the large chest can return, although an expedition might be
mounted to find it.
While the chest is in the Ethereal Plane, there is a cumulative 1% chance per week that
some being finds it. This chance is reset to 1% whenever the chest is recalled and the
spell recast to return it to the Ethereal Plane. If the chest is found, the DM must work out
the encounter and decide how the being reacts to the chest (for example, it might ignore
the chest, fully or partially empty it, or even exchange or add to the items present!).
Whenever the secret chest is brought back to the Prime Material Plane, an ethereal
window is opened for a variable amount of time (usually about one turn); the window
slowly diminishes in size. When this hole opens between the planes, check for an ethereal
encounter to see if a monster is drawn through.
If the large chest is not retrieved before the spell duration lapses, there is a cumulative
chance of 5% per day that the chest is lost.

 Lower Resistance (Abjuration, Alteration) 
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn+1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
Using this spell, a wizard may attempt to reduce the magic resistance of a target 
creature. The magic resistance of the victim works against the lower resistance spell 
itself, but at only half its normal value. No saving throw is permitted in addition to magic 
resistance.
If the victim does not resist the effects of this spell, his magic resistance is reduced by 
a base 30% plus 1% per experience level of the wizard casting the spell.
This spell has no effect on creatures that have no magic resistance.
The material component is a broken iron rod.


 Magic Jar
(Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
The magic jar spell enables the caster to shift his life force into a special receptacle (a
gem or large crystal). From there the caster can force an exchange of life forces between
the receptacle and another creature, thus enabling the wizard to take over and control the
body of another creature, while the life force of the host is confined in the receptacle. The
special life force receptacle must be within spell range of the wizard's body at the time of
spellcasting. The wizard's life force shifts into the receptacle in the round in which the
casting is completed, allowing no other actions.
While in the magic jar, the caster can sense and attack any life force within a 10-footper-level radius (on the same plane); however, the exact creature types and relative
physical positions cannot be determined. In a group of life forces, the caster can sense a
difference of four or more levels/Hit Dice and can determine whether a life force is
positive or negative energy.
For example, if two 10th-level fighters are attacking a hill giant and four ogres, the
caster could determine that there are three stronger and four weaker life forces within
range, all with positive life energy. The caster could try to take over either a stronger or a
weaker creature, but he has no control over exactly which creature is attacked.
An attempt to take over a host body requires a full round. It is blocked by a protection 
from evil spell or similar ward. It is successful only if the subject fails a saving throw vs.
spell with a special modifier (see following). The saving throw is modified by subtracting
the combined Intelligence and Wisdom scores of the target from those of the wizard
(Intelligence and Hit Dice in nonhuman or nonhumanoid creatures). This modifier is
added to (or subtracted from) the die roll.

Difference   | Die Adjustment
-9 or less   | +4
-8 to -6     | +3
-5 to -3     | +2
-2 to 0      | +1
+1 to +4     | 0
+5 to +8     | -1
+9 to +12    | -2
+13 or more  | -3

A negative score indicates that the wizard has a lower total than the target; thus, the
host has a saving throw bonus. Failure to take over the host leaves the wizard's life force
in the magic jar.
If successful, the caster's life force occupies the host body and the host's life force is
confined in the magic jar receptacle. The caster can call upon rudimentary or instinctive
knowledge of the subject creature, but not upon its real or acquired knowledge (i.e., the
wizard does not automatically know the language or spells of the creature). The caster
retains his own attack rolls, class knowledge and training, and any adjustments due to his
Intelligence or Wisdom. If the host body is human or humanoid, and the necessary spell
components are available, the wizard can even use his memorized spells. The host body
retains its own hit points and physical abilities and properties. The DM decides if any
additional modifications are necessary; for example, perhaps clumsiness or inefficiency
occurs if the caster must become used to the new form. The alignment of the host or
receptacle is that of the occupying life force.
The caster can shift freely from the host to the receptacle if within the 10-foot-per-level
range. Each attempt to shift requires one round. The spell ends when the wizard shifts
from the jar to his own body.
A successful dispel magic spell cast on the host can drive the caster of the magic jar
spell back into the receptacle and prevent him from making any attacks for 1d4 rounds
plus 1 round per level of the caster of the dispel. The base success chance is 50%, plus or
minus 5% per level difference between the casters. A successful dispel magic cast against
the receptacle forces the occupant back into his own body. If the wizard who cast the
magic jar is forced back into his own body, the spell ends.
If the host body is slain, the caster returns to the receptacle, if within range, and the life
force of the host departs (i.e., it is dead). If the host body is slain beyond the range of the
spell, both the host and the caster die.
Any life force with nowhere to go is treated as slain unless recalled by a raise dead,
resurrection, or similar spell.
If the body of the caster is slain, his life force survives if it is in either the receptacle or
the host. If the receptacle is destroyed while the caster's life force occupies it, the caster is 
irrevocably slain.

 Magic Staff (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: The wizard's staff
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a wizard's staff to store one spell level for every three levels of the 
caster. Thus, a 9th-level wizard can store three spell levels (three 1st-level spells, one 1st 
and one 2nd, or one 3rd-level spell).
Spells that are to be stored in the staff must be memorized normally by the wizard. 
The spells are then cast as normal when charging the staff; casting requires the spell's 
normal casting time plus one round. The spell is wiped from memory and material 
components are consumed. All spells to be stored must be cast into the staff within 1 turn.
All stored spells have a casting time of 1.
Spells remain in the staff until cast or dispelled, or up to 1 hour per level of the caster. 
After this time, all stored spells fade away.
Only wizards who know the magic staff spell can cast spells from another wizard's 
staff. This applies to wizards who have never learned or could not normally cast the 
spells stored in a staff. It is common, however, for the staff's owner to implement a 
command word which must be known by anyone wishing to use the staff.
The material component for this spell is a staff cut from an ash tree. For each spell 
level the wizard intends to imbue into the staff, it must be inlaid with rubies worth at least 
1,000 gp. 

 Major Creation
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Like the minor creation spell, the major creation spell enables the wizard to pull wisps
of material from the Demiplane of Shadow to create an item of nonliving, vegetable
nature--soft goods, rope, wood, etc. The wizard can also create mineral objects--stone,
crystal, metal, etc. The item created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot per level of the spellcaster
in volume. The duration of the created item varies with its relative hardness and rarity:

Vegetable matter 2 hours/level
Stone or crystal 1 hour/level
Precious metals 2 turns/level
Gems 1 turn/level
Mithral* 2 rounds/level
Adamantite 1 round/level
* Includes similar rare metals.

Attempting to use any of these as material components in a spell will cause the spell to
fail. The spellcaster must have at least a tiny piece of matter of the same type as the item
he plans to create--a bit of twisted hemp to create rope, a chip of stone to create a
boulder, and so on.

 Mind Fog (Enchantment/Charm) 
Range: 80 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 3 turns
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: 20-foot cube
Saving Throw: Neg.
A mind fog is a physical block of fog that enables the wizard to weaken the mental 
resistance of his victims. Victims are allowed a saving throw at a -2 penalty to avoid the 
effects.
A creature who falls victim to the mind fog suffers -2 penalties to all saving throws 
against two categories of magic: all spells of the illusion/phantasm and 
enchantment/charm schools that affect the mind directly; and spells of 1st through 5th 
level which affect the mind directly. For example, phantasmal force is a mind-affecting 
spell; phantom steed is not.
The penalty to saving throws operates cumulatively with any penalties that operate
for other reasons. Affected creatures suffer the penalty as long as they remain in the fog 
and for 2d6 rounds thereafter. 

 Monster Summoning III
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: Special Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 rds. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 50-yd. radius Saving Throw: None
This spell is much like the 3rd-level spell monster summoning I, except that this spell
summons 1d4 3rd-level monsters. These appear within the spell's area of effect and attack
the caster's opponents, until either he commands them to cease, the spell duration expires,
or the monsters are slain. These creatures do not check morale and vanish when slain. If
no opponent exists to fight, and the wizard can communicate with them, the summoned
monsters can perform other services for the wizard.
The material components of this spell are a tiny bag and a small candle.

 Mordenkainen's Faithful Hound
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard summons up a phantom watchdog that only he can
see. He may then command it to perform as guardian of a passage, room, door, or similar
space or portal. The phantom watchdog immediately commences a loud barking if any
creature larger than a cat approaches the place it guards. As the faithful hound is able to
detect invisible creatures and ward against the approach of ethereal creatures, it is an
excellent guardian. It does not react to illusions that are not at least quasi-real.
If the intruding creature exposes its back to the watchdog, the dog delivers a vicious
attack as if it were a 10-Hit Dice monster, striking for 3d6 points of damage. It is able to
hit opponents of all types, even those normally subject only to magical weapons of +3 or
greater. Creatures without backs (for example, ochre jellies) are not attacked. The faithful
hound cannot be attacked, but it can be dispelled. The spell lasts for a maximum of one
hour plus half an hour per caster level, but once it is activated by an intruder, it lasts only
one round per caster level. If the spellcaster is ever more than 30 yards distant from the
area that the watchdog guards, the spell ends.
The material components of this spell are a tiny silver whistle, a piece of bone, and a
thread.

 Mordenkainen's Private Sanctum (Alteration, Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: One room
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, privacy is ensured in a room of up to 1600 square feet (40 feet x 40 
feet, or the equivalent). From the outside, the windows of the room appear to be dark and 
cloudy, preventing those with normal vision, infravision, or any other type of vision from 
seeing inside. Those inside the room can see out the windows as they normally would. 
No sounds of any kind can escape from the room. Scrying attempts, such as ESP, 
clairaudience, clairvoyance, and crystal balls cannot penetrate the room, and a wizard 
eye cannot enter. The caster can leave the room without affecting the spell. 
The material components for this spell are a thin sheet of lead, a piece of opaque glass, 
a wad of cotton or cloth, and a pinch of powdered chrysolite.

 Mummy Rot (Necromancy) 
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One victim
Saving Throw: Special
This spell allows the caster to attack with a rotting touch similar to that of a mummy. 
If the caster touches a human, demihuman, or humanoid victim, the victim immediately 
loses 2-12 (2d6) hit points and is infected with a rotting disease which is fatal in 1-6 
months. For each month the rot progresses, the victim permanently loses 2 points of 
Charisma. While infected, the victim recovers lost hit points at 10 percent of his normal 
rate. The rotting disease can be cured only with a cure disease spell; cure wounds has no 
effect. A regenerate spell will restore damage but will not otherwise affect the course of 
the disease. If a victim makes a successful saving throw, he is not infected, but he still 
suffers 2-12 hit points of damage. 
The material components for this spell are a piece of rotten fruit and a piece of a 
mummy's cloth wrapping.

 Othertime
(Alteration)
Sphere: Time
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
When a priest enters othertime, he steps into a different reality in which the world 
around him is frozen at a moment in the future. Until time catches up to him, he may 
move about unhindered and observe his surroundings; no force known can detect his 
presence or harm him in the alternate reality, although he in turn cannot affect any 
creature or object in the physical world. For instance, he could read a book at the page it 
was opened to, but he could not turn the page since that would require him to move an 
object that is temporarily immovable for him. To his companions or enemy in real time, 
the priest appears to simply vanish altogether, only to reappear at some later point.
The duration of this spell is a little odd, to say the least. The priest may choose a 
duration of up to 1 round at 7th to 9th level, 2 rounds at 10th to 12th level, 3 rounds at 
13th to 16th, 4 rounds at 17th to 19th, up to a maximum of 5 rounds at 20th level or 
higher. The duration chosen by the priest governs the length of the othertime; if the priest 
decides that the spell will last 2 rounds, then he is instantly transported to that point in 
time, surrounded by the frozen still-life of the world as it will appear 2 rounds after the 
priest cast othertime. The caster then has 2 rounds to himself to take any actions he cares 
to, although he cannot affect the real world by any physical, magical, or mental means.
While the caster is in the othertime, he is completely unaware of the intervening 
events. In the example above, if the caster’s friends were teleported away 1 round after 
the caster left and replaced by an identical group of dopplegangers, the caster would have 
no chance to detect the switch; all he sees are the bodies of his “friends,” frozen in the 
positions they will occupy when he emerges from the othertime. This also means that 
nasty things like dragon breath, cloudkills, or mind blasts that pass through the spot 
where the caster happens to be have no effect on him—he simply does not exist in the 
real world while he waits for everyone else to catch up to him.
As noted above, the caster gains an amount of subjective time equal to the 
duration of the spell. By leaping 3 rounds into the future, the caster gains 3 rounds of 
actions in the othertime. He could drink a potion, cast a spell, and then maneuver for an 
attack, for example, or he could gain a 3-round head start by running for his life while no 
one else can pursue him. If the priest uses this time to study a battle and position himself 
for an attack, he gains a –4 bonus to his initiative roll on the round he emerges from 
othertime, and a +4 attack bonus with his first strike.
Leaping in and out of the time stream is a dangerous activity; every time the priest 
employs this spell, there is a 1% noncumulative chance that he becomes stuck in 
othertime, doomed to death by thirst or starvation when his own rations run out. Only the 
most extraordinary measures (a wish spell, divine intervention, etc.) can save a character 
in this predicament. Once a priest is in othertime, he cannot pray for further spells. After 
all, if the priest is going to attract his deity’s attention by praying for spells, the deity will 
most likely allow him out! The material component for this spell is an hourglass filled 
with rare salts, worth at least 100 gold pieces.

 Passwall
(Alteration)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr. + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 5 x 8 x 10 ft. Saving Throw: None
A passwall spell enables the spellcaster to open a passage through wooden, plaster, or
stone walls, but not other materials. The spellcaster and any associates can simply walk
through. The spell causes a 5-foot wide x 8-foot high x 10-foot deep opening. Several of
these spells can form a continuing passage so that very thick walls can be pierced. If
dispelled, the passwall closes away from the dispelling caster, ejecting those in the
passage.
The material component of this spell is a pinch of sesame seeds.

 Proofing versus Combustion
(Abjuration, Elemental Fire)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
The renowned fire wizard Daltim developed this spell some years ago to protect 
important items or structures against the various incendiary spells with which he was 
familiar. Proofing renders an inanimate object nearly impervious to fire, granting the 
affected item a +3 bonus to saving throws vs. magical fire (including a dragon’s breath), 
and a +6 bonus to saving throws vs. normal fire. This is cumulative with the saving throw 
bonus of a magical item, so a cloak of protection +4 could have a bonus of +7 to +10 on 
any item saving throws versus combustion effects. Remember that an item fails its saving 
throw on a natural roll of 1, regardless of any bonuses.
The item affected must be one discrete construction or object, although it can be 
articulated or composed of several parts (for example, a suit of armor, a catapult, a house, 
or a carriage). At 9th level, the wizard can proof an article of clothing or a small piece of 
furniture; at 12th level, a small vehicle or large piece of furniture; at 15th level, a small 
building or large vehicle; at 18th level, a medium building or a very large vehicle; and at 
20th level or higher, a large building or small fortification. A character dressed in a 
completely proofed article of clothing (a large cloak) gains a +2 bonus to saving throws 
vs. fire.
The material component for proofing versus combustion is a fire-brick made with 
the ashes left from a phoenix’s fire. Seafaring wizards often use this spell to protect their 
vessels from hostile fireballs and various fire-throwing devices.

 Produce Ice
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Cube 1 ft./level Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Moderate visual, Critical: None
 small tactile
This spell creates supernatural cold in the area of effect, condensing all 
atmospheric and standing water into a thick rime of ice. If there is no source of water or 
even enough humidity to support this spell, then the DM can rule that the spell has no 
effect. The caster affects a cubic area of 1 foot per level to a side, so a 12th-level caster 
affects a 12-foot by 12-foot by 12-foot cube (up to a maximum of 25 feet to a side). This 
can have several effects; first of all, any creature caught in the area of effect when the 
temperature is lowered suffers 2d4 damage plus 1 point per level of the caster (or 
2d4+12, for the 12th-level caster described above), or half that damage with a successful 
saving throw vs. spell. Any fires in the area are suppressed and may (50% chance) be 
extinguished.
Creatures entering the area of effect after the initial creation of ice suffer no additional damage, 
although the air will be noticeably dry and cold. However, the ice formed by the spell coats all surfaces and 
may cause creatures to slip and fall. Any creature moving into or out of the affected area must make a 
saving throw vs. spell or fall, losing their action for the round. The ice lasts at least 2 rounds per caster 
level, and then begins to melt at whatever rate nature decrees.
If cast on a body of water, this spell creates an iceberg of the stated dimensions. A 
swimmer or aquatic creature could be caught in the ice and trapped until the ice melts; 
most air-breathers will suffocate from this treatment, but a few aquatic creatures (fish, 
amphibians, etc.) may survive being frozen, at the DM’s discretion.
The material component is a scale from a white dragon.

 Prying Eyes
(Divination)
Range: 1 mile Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Creates 1d4+1 Saving Throw: None
eyes/level
Subtlety: +6 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Tiny visual Critical: None
This spell conjures a small horde of semitangible magical orbs or eyes that can be 
used to reconnoiter an area at the wizard’s command. Each of the eyes is about the size of 
a small apple and can see 120 feet (normal vision only) in all directions. In order to report 
their findings, the eyes must return to the caster’s hand to replay in the caster’s mind 
everything they have seen during their existence. The eyes are subject to illusions, 
darkness, fog, and any other factors that would affect the wizard’s ability to receive 
visual information about his surroundings. The eyes only see as a normal human would—
abilities and spell effects including infravision do not alter the eyes’ vision. It only takes 
the eye one round to replay one hour of recorded images.
The spell conjures 1d4 eyes, plus 1 eye per caster level. The eyes exist for up to 1 
hour per caster level, or until they return to the wizard; after relaying its findings, an eye 
disappears. Each eye is AC 4, flies by levitation at a rate of 12, and has only 1 hit point—
a single hit from any weapon or damaging spell destroys it. A successful dispel magic 
destroys all eyes caught in the area of effect. While the individual eyes are quite fragile, 
they’re small and difficult to spot, especially in conditions of poor visibility such as 
darkness, fog, or rain. Of course, if the eye is being sent into darkness, then it’s very 
possible that it could hit a wall or other similar obstacle and destroy itself. 
When the wizard creates the eyes, he can specify any set of instructions or orders 
that he wishes, up to 25 words. Any knowledge the wizard possesses is assumed to be 
known by the eyes as well, so if the wizard knows what a typical Jakallian merchant 
looks like, the eyes do as well. Sample commands might be, “Surround me at a range of 
400 yards and return if you spot any dangerous creatures,” or “Spread out and search the 
town for Arweth; follow him for three turns, staying out of sight, and then return.” Note 
that in the first command, the eye only returns if it spots a creature that the wizard would 
regard as dangerous; a seemingly innocuous peasant that is actually a shapechanged 
dragon wouldn’t trigger the eye’s return. In any event, if an eye is ever more than one 
mile distant from the wizard, it instantly ceases to exist. However, the wizard’s link with 
the eye is such that he won’t know if the eye was destroyed or if it just wandered out of 
range.
Some command words can be used to abbreviate the directions. For example, 
“surround me” directs the eyes to form an equally-spaced ring at whatever range is 
indicated, and then move with the wizard. As eyes return or are destroyed, the rest 
automatically space themselves to compensate. “Spread out” directs the eyes to move 
away from the wizard in all directions. Other commands that might be useful include 
having them form a line in a certain manner, making them move at random within a 
certain range, or have them follow a certain type of creature. The DM is the final judge of 
the suitability of the wizard’s directions.
The material component is a handful of crystal marbles.

 Rary's Telepathic Bond (Divination, Alteration) 
Range: 20 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns per level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Two or more creatures
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster forms a telepathic bond between two or more creatures with 
Intelligence of 6 or higher. The bond can be established only between willing creatures 
who are within 20 yards of each other. The creatures need not speak the same language to 
communicate via the bond. The bond can be placed upon one creature for every three 
levels of the caster; therefore, a 9th-level caster can forge a bond among three creatures. 
The bonded creatures can remain in mental contact as long as they remain on the same 
plane of existence. If either creature enters a different plane, the spell is terminated. 
Rary's telepathic bond can be cast only once to affect a single pair of subjects. 
However, if the caster is able to cast the spell twice, the same subjects can be affected 
again. Example: A wizard can cast telepathic bond twice. The first casting links Subject 
A to Subject B. The second casting can affect Subject A again, linking him with Subject 
C. 
The material components for this spell are two pieces of eggshell; the pieces must be 
from the eggs of two different species of egg-laying creature.

 Righteous Wrath of the Faithful
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: War
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
Subtlety: +5 Knockdown: None
Sensory: None Critical: None
When a priest casts this spell, he fires his allies and companions with a divine 
madness or fury that greatly enhances their combat ability. Allies who are fighting on the 
side of the priest are affected as if they had received an aid spell, gaining a +1 bonus to 
attack rolls and saving throws, plus 1d8 additional hit points for the duration of the spell.
Allies who share the same faith (not just alignment) of the caster are transported 
into the righteous wrath; they gain one additional melee attack each round and a +2 
bonus to saving throws and attack and damage rolls. Creatures under the influence of the 
righteous wrath gain 1d8 additional hit points, which are the first points lost if the subject 
sustains any injury (see aid, on page 257 of the PHB). Characters in a state of divine 
frenzy are difficult to charm or hold. Against spells or effects that target the subject’s 
mind or emotions, the saving throw bonus increases to +3.
When the spell ends, all remaining additional hit points are lost. Characters who 
fought under the righteous wrath find themselves extremely fatigued and must rest for 
one full turn before exerting themselves again; if forced to fight in this state, they are 
treated as if they were exhausted under the Combat & Tactics fatigue rules. The material 
component of this spell is the priest’s holy symbol.

 Rusting Grasp
(Alteration, Elemental Water, Alchemy)
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Medium visual/olfactory Critical: None
By casting this spell, the wizard gains the power to corrode ferrous metals and 
alloys at a touch. Iron and iron-based alloys such as steel, meteoric iron, mithral, and 
adamantite are affected, but noble metals such as gold, silver, and copper are not subject 
to reduction through rusting. Any ferrous metal touched by the wizard must make an item 
saving throw vs. disintegration (usually a 17 or better on a d20) or be destroyed. Magical 
arms or armor may apply their bonus to this save, so a sword +3 would gain a +3 to its 
roll. Other magical metal items may receive a +1 to a +6 bonus based on the DM’s 
estimate of their power.
The wizard may employ rusting grasp in combat by simply touching the 
equipment of metal-wearing characters or creatures. If he tries to touch the armor of a 
character, the wizard need only hit the opponents unarmored AC. If the armor fails its 
save, rusting grasp permanently destroys 2d4 points of AC through corrosion. For 
example, plate mail +3 (base AC 0) could be reduced to a base AC of 2 to 8 if it fails its 
item saving throw.
Weapons are more difficult to grasp; the wizard must make an attack roll against 
AC 4 (modified by the opponent’s Dexterity) in order to touch the weapon. If the weapon 
fails its saving throw, it is destroyed. Important note: The wizard must touch the weapon 
and not the other way around! Unlike a rust monster, he doesn’t corrode weapons simply 
by being hit.
Against metallic creatures, rusting grasp functions like the priest spell cause 
serious wounds in that it inflicts 2d8+1 point of damage per successful attack. The spell 
lasts for one round per level, and the wizard can make one touch attack per round. The 
material component is an antenna from a rust monster.

 Safeguarding (Abjuration) 
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn+1 turn/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 15-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
Use of this spell protects the wizard and anyone in the area of effect from damage 
caused by the rebounding of the wizard's spells. This includes damage from a fireball cast 
in an area too small for its effects, a reflected lightning bolt, or any other offensive area 
spell that overlaps the safeguarding's area of effect. The protection is effective against 
spells of 7th level and lower. The protection does not apply to damage from spells 
rebounded by any form of magical spell turning. This spell does not protect the wizard 
against damage from spells or attacks cast by enemies or other party members.
A wizard who has cast safeguarding is free to move and act normally. The spell's 
effect is always centered on him, regardless of his actions. Other creatures are free to 
enter and exit the area of effect.
An area spell cast by the wizard will take effect normally, but its effects will be 
negated within the area of the safeguarding spell. This applies only to area spells centered 
outside the radius of the safeguarding spell. If the wizard casts an offensive area spell 
within the area of the safeguarding, the safeguarding is immediately negated and those 
within the area suffer full damage from the spell. The wizard is free to cast non-offensive 
area spells and individually targeted spells within the area of the safeguarding.
The material component is a piece of preserved skin from any creature that possesses 
natural magic resistance. 

 Seeming
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10-ft. radius Components: V, S
Duration: 12 hrs. Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 person/2 levels Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to alter the appearance of one person for every two levels
of experience he has attained. The change includes clothing and equipment. The caster 
can make the recipients appear as any generally man-shaped bipedal creature, each up to
1 foot shorter or taller than his normal height, and thin or fat or in between. All those
affected must resemble the same general type of creature: human, orc, ogre, etc. Each
remains a recognizable individual. The effect fails for an individual if the illusion chosen
by the caster cannot be accomplished within the spell parameters (for example, a halfling
could not be made to look like a centaur, but he might be made to look like a short, young
ogre). Unwilling persons receive saving throws vs. spell to avoid the effect. Affected
persons resume their normal appearances if slain. The spell is not precise enough to
duplicate the appearance of a specific individual.

 Sending
(Evocation)
Range: Unlimited Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster can contact a single creature with whom he is
familiar and whose name and appearance are known. If the creature in question is not on
the same plane of existence as the spellcaster, there is a base 5% chance that the sending
does not arrive. Local conditions on other planes may worsen this chance considerably, at
the option of the DM. The sending, if successful, can be understood even by a creature
with an Intelligence as low as 1 (animal intelligence).
The wizard can send a short message of 25 words or less to the recipient; the recipient
can answer in like manner immediately. Even if the sending is received, the subject
creature is not obligated to act upon it in any manner.
The material component for this spell consists of two tiny cylinders, each with one
open end, connected by a short piece of fine copper wire.

 Shadow Door
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 10 yds. Components: S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard creates the illusion of a door. The illusion also
permits the wizard to appear to step through this "door" and disappear. In reality, he has
darted aside and can flee, totally invisible, for the spell duration. Creatures viewing this
are deluded into seeing or entering an empty 10-foot x 10-foot room if they open the
"door." A true seeing spell, a gem of seeing, or similar magical means can discover the
wizard. Certain high Hit Dice monsters might also notice the wizard (see the invisibility
spell), but only if making an active attempt to do so.

 Shadow Magic
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Range: 50 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
The shadow magic spell enables the wizard to tap energy from the Demiplane of
Shadow to cast a quasi-real wizard evocation spell of 3rd level or less. For example, this
spell can be magic missile, fireball, lightning bolt, or so on, and has normal effects upon
creatures in the area of effect if they fail their saving throws vs. spell. Thus, a creature
failing to save against a shadow magic fireball must roll another saving throw. If the
latter roll is successful, the creature suffers half the normal fireball damage; if the roll is
not successful, the creature suffers full normal fireball damage. If the first saving throw
was successful, the shadow magic nature is detected and only 20% of the rolled damage
is received (rounding down below fractions below .4 and rounding up fractions of .4 and
above).

 Stone Shape
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 cu. ft./level Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the wizard can form an existing piece of stone into a shape that
suits his purposes. For example, the wizard can make a stone weapon, a special trapdoor,
an idol, etc. This spell can also enable the spellcaster to reshape a stone door so as to
escape imprisonment, providing the volume of stone involved is within the limits of the
area of effect. While the caster can thus create stone doors and coffers, the fineness of
detail is not great. If the construction involves small moving parts, there is a 30% chance
they do not function.
The material component of this spell is soft clay that must be worked into roughly the
desired shape of the stone object and then touched to the stone when the spell is uttered.

 Summon Shadow
(Conjuration/Summoning, Necromancy)
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd. + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. cube Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the wizard conjures up one shadow (see the Monstrous
Manual) for every three levels of experience he has attained. These monsters are under
the control of the spellcaster and attack his enemies on command. The shadows remain
until slain, turned, or the spell duration expires.
The material component for this spell is a bit of smoky quartz.

 Telekinesis
(Alteration)
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10 yds./level Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the wizard is able to move objects by concentrating on moving
them mentally. The spell can provide either a gentle, sustained force or a single short,
violent thrust.
A sustained force enables the wizard to move a weight of up to 25 pounds a distance
up to 20 feet per round. The spell lasts two rounds, plus one round per caster level. The
weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or both. An object moved beyond the
caster's range falls or stops. If the caster ceases concentration for any reason, the object
falls or stops. The object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand. For
example, a lever or rope can be pulled, a key can be turned, an object rotated and so on, if
the force required is within the weight limitation. The caster might even be able to untie
simple knots, at the discretion of the DM.
Alternatively, the spell energy can be expended in a single round. The caster can hurl
one or more objects within range, and within a 10-foot cube, directly away from himself
at high speed, to a distance of up to 10 feet per caster level. This is subject to a maximum
weight of 25 pounds per caster level. Damage caused by hurled objects is decided by the
DM, but cannot exceed 1 point of damage per caster level. Opponents who fall within the
weight capacity of the spell can be hurled, but they are allowed a saving throw vs. spell to
avoid the effect. Furthermore, those able to employ as simple a counter-measure as an
enlarge spell, for example (thus making the body weight go over the maximum spell
limit), can easily counter the spell. The various Bigby's hand spells also counter this spell.

 Teleport
(Alteration)
Range: Touch Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
When this spell is used, the wizard instantly transports himself, along with a certain
amount of additional weight that is on or being touched by the spellcaster, to a wellknown destination. 
Distance is not a factor, but interplanar travel is not possible by means
of a teleport spell. The spellcaster is able to teleport a maximum weight of 250 pounds,
plus an additional 150 pounds for each level of experience above the 10th (a 13th-level
wizard can teleport up to 700 pounds). If the destination area is very familiar to the
wizard (he has a clear mental picture due to previous proximity to and study of the area),
it is unlikely that there is any error in arriving, although the caster has no control over his
facing upon arrival. Lesser known areas (those seen only magically or from a distance)
increase the probability of error. Unfamiliar areas present considerable peril (see table).
 
                  |   Probability of Teleporting: |
Destination Is:   | High    | On Target  |  Low   |
Very familiar     | 01-02   | 03-99      |   00   |
Studied carefully | 01-04   | 05-98      | 99-00  |
Seen casually     | 01-08   | 09-96      | 97-00  |
Viewed once       | 01-16   | 17-92      | 93-00  |
Never seen        | 01-32   | 33-84      | 85-00  |

Teleporting high means the wizard arrives 10 feet above the ground for every 1% he is
below the lowest "On Target" probability; this could be as high as 320 feet if the
destination area was never seen. Any low result means the instant death of the wizard if
the area into which he teleports is solid. A wizard cannot teleport to an area of empty
space--a substantial surface must be there, whether a wooden floor, a stone floor, natural
ground, etc. Areas of strong physical or magical energies may make teleportation more
hazardous or even impossible.

 Tenser’s Destructive Resonance
(Invocation/Evocation, Force)
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 1 object Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: d12
Sensory: Huge audio, Critical: Huge (1–4 hits)
large tactile crushing
When this spell is cast, a thin beam of destructive blue force springs forth from 
the caster’s fingertip and strikes any one object within range. The beam imparts an 
immense amount of energy to the object struck, causing it to spontaneously explode. 
Large, massive objects have more potential destructive energy than small, lightweight 
objects, but the wizard must hold the beam on the larger object for a longer time in order 
to cause detonation.
The beam has two principal effects: First of all, the object struck is disintegrated 
if it fails its item saving throw. Secondly, any creature near the destroyed item suffers 
damage proportional to the weight of the item detonated, plus blast damage of 1d6 points 
per two caster levels. Creatures caught within the blast radius may attempt a saving throw 
vs. paralyzation for half damage (1 point per caster level), but the base damage of the 
explosion may not be saved against. 

Weight    | Resonance  |  Base   |  Explosive
(lb.)     | Time       |  Damage |  Radius
1–5       | Instant    |  1d8    |  2 ft.
6–25      | Instant    |  1d12   |  3 ft.
26–100    | One rd.    |  1d20   |  5 ft.
101–500   | Two rds.   |  2d12   |  10 ft.
501–2,000 | Three rds. |  3d12   |  15 ft.

Objects more massive than 2,000 pounds are simply too big to detonate. Living 
flesh and enchanted objects or items are immune to the destructive resonance, but a 
wizard could choose to use Tenser’s destructive resonance on an object worn or carried 
by another creature. However, if he does so, the victim is entitled to a saving throw vs. 
spell to negate the beam entirely and prevent any damage at all, and then gains a save for 
half damage against the blast effect even if the beam succeeds in detonating his 
equipment.
The material component for this spell is a tiny orb of finely-crafted gold with a 
small removable ring surrounding it that must be taken off as the spell is cast.

 Throbbing Bones (Necromancy) 
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: 1/2
This spell causes the bones of the affected creature to throb and pulsate inside his 
body. The spell can be cast upon any single living creature or person within the caster's 
range, providing the creature has a physical form and has bones inside its body; for 
instance, throbbing bones will not affect insects, ghosts, or worms. 
For the duration of the spell, the affected creature's AC is worsened by 2, its 
movement rate is halved, and all its attacks are made with a -2 penalty. Additionally, it 
suffers 1-4 hit points of damage per round; this damage is halved if the creature makes a 
successful saving throw. However, a successful saving throw has no affect on the 
movement, attack, and AC penalties. 
The material components for this spell are both pieces of a small bone that has been 
snapped in half

 Transmute Rock to Mud
(Alteration)
Reversible
Range: 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
This spell turns natural rock of any sort into an equal volume of mud. The depth of the
mud can never exceed half its length or breadth. If it is cast upon a rock, for example, the
rock affected collapses into mud. Creatures unable to levitate, fly, or otherwise free
themselves from the mud sink at the rate of 10 feet per round and suffocate, except for
lightweight creatures that could normally pass across such ground. Brush thrown atop the
mud can support creatures able to climb on top of it, with the amount of brush required
subject to the DM's discretion. The mud remains until a dispel magic spell or a reverse of
this spell, mud to rock, restores its substance--but not necessarily its form. Evaporation
turns the mud to normal dirt, at the rate of 1d6 days per 10 cubic feet. The mud to rock
reverse can harden normal mud into soft stone (sandstone or similar mineral)
permanently unless magically changed.
The material components for the spell are clay and water (or sand, lime, and water for
the reverse).

 Vile Venom
(Conjuration/Summoning, Elemental Water, Alchemy)
Range: 30 yards Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hr./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Special
Subtlety: +4 Knockdown: None
Sensory: Small visual Critical: None
By casting this inherently evil spell, the wizard conjures a small amount of deadly 
poison directly onto any weapon blades or other surface within the area of effect. The 
spell creates one dose per caster level; a single dose is sufficient to coat one size S 
weapon such as a dagger or an arrowhead, three doses can coat a size M weapon, and five 
doses can coat a size L weapon. The venom remains potent for up to one hour per caster
level, although an envenomed blade remains so for only 1d3 successful attacks before the 
poison has been worn off. The potency of the venom varies by the caster level, as shown 
below.

Level | Onset Time | Strength
9th |  2–12 rounds |  20/1d3
12th |  2–5 rounds |  25/2d4
15th |  1–2 rounds |  30/2d6
18th+ |  Immediate |  death/20

If a weapon coated with Vandarien’s vile venom successfully hits a creature, the 
victim must make a saving throw vs. poison or suffer the first damage figure—if the 
caster was a 12th-level wizard, this would be 25 points. (Naturally, this is damage above 
and beyond any caused by the weapon that injects the poison.) Even if he succeeds in the 
save, the victim still sustains a lesser amount of damage, as shown in the second figure.
Instead of creating an insinuative poison (one that is introduced to the body 
through a cut), the wizard can instead conjure the venom as a contact poison. A surface of 
about one-half square foot per caster level can be affected. One square foot is enough to 
coat a doorknob, a sword-hilt, the handle or clasp of a chest, or an object of similar size. 
The contact poison has the same effects as the insinuative venom, but the victim gains a 
+2 bonus on his saving throws. The contact poison’s toxicity fades at the end of the 
spell’s duration.
The material component is a small vial of venom from a giant snake.

 Von Gasik's Refusal (Abjuration)
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 20-foot-square/level
Saving Throw: None
This powerful spell is designed to prevent unauthorized spellcasters from entering a 
hallway, doorway, window, or other point of entry.
The spell creates an invisible barrier that blocks the targeted area. Any 
nonspellcasters and those spellcasters specifically named by the caster may pass freely. 
All other spellcasters collide with the invisible barrier. Members of classes with lesser 
spellcasting abilities (paladins, rangers, and bards) are blocked only if the character is of 
sufficient level to cast spells.
The wizard is able to ward one area up to 20'-square for each level of his experience. 
Thus, a 12th-level wizard may protect a square area 240 feet on a side. The area of effect 
may be divided among several smaller portals as long as the total area does not exceed 
the caster's limit. Each portal must be in range and sight of the caster at the time the spell 
is cast.
The barriers exist for one hour per level of the caster unless they are dismissed by the 
caster or dispelled by a dispel magic spell. A disintegrate spell immediately destroys a 
barrier, as does a rod of cancellation or a sphere of annihilation.
The invisible walls are not affected by physical blows, cold, heat, or electricity. 
Thrown and projected weapons (both magical and mundane) are not repelled by the 
barrier and may pass through the area normally. Spells can be cast through the barrier. 
Dimension door, teleport, and similar effects can bypass the barriers.
The material component is a pinch of dust from any wizard's tomb. 

 Vortex* (Evocation) 
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d4 rounds+1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of effect: 5-foot-diameter circle
Saving Throw: ½
A vortex is a swirling mass of magical energy, barely controllable by the caster. On 
the round of casting, a small sparkle of lights fills the air at the desired position. On the 
second round, a 7'-tall, multicolored tornado appears. From this moment on, the caster 
must maintain concentration in order for the vortex to remain.
Each round, the caster can move the vortex 60 feet. However, control of direction is 
not perfect. The caster has complete control over distance, but can only suggest the 
desired direction. The caster has a 50% chance of moving the vortex in the direction he 
desires; if the die roll indicates failure, the vortex moves according to the scatter diagram 
for grenade-like missiles. Thus, the vortex usually moves in the general direction desired, 
but on occasion, it may move to either side or directly toward the caster. 
The vortex cannot pass through objects larger than its area of effect (it could move 
through a sapling but not an ancient oak tree) and will be redirected by these, rebounding 
along the general line of movement. For example, if cast in a narrow hallway, the vortex
might ricochet down the hall, bouncing from side to side.
The vortex is composed of raw magical energy. Nonmagical creatures struck by the 
vortex suffer 1d4 points of damage per level of the caster. Magical creatures and 
spellcasters suffer 1d6 points of damage per level of the caster. Creatures struck are 
allowed a saving throw vs. magic to suffer only half damage.
Each time a creature is struck, there is a 5% chance that the vortex will explode in a 
wild surge. Use Table 2 to determine the results of any wild surge. If the vortex causes a 
wild surge, the spell ends immediately.
The material components are a silk streamer and a handful of straw. 

 Wall of Bones (Conjuration, Necromancy) 
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10-foot square/level;96-inch thickness/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell causes a wall of bones to erupt from the earth in whatever shape the caster 
desires within the limits of the area of effect. The wall is a random construction of bones 
from many types of creatures. The wall need not be vertical, but it must rest upon a firm 
foundation or it will collapse. Since the wall has many small openings and gaps, it 
provides only 50 percent cover. Missiles can easily be fired from behind the wall, and 
creatures of small size (less than 4 feet tall) can wriggle through openings in the wall at 
the rate of 10 feet per round. However, the wall has many sharp edges and creatures 
wriggling through it suffer 1-8 hit points of damage per 10 feet traveled. 
If the spell is cast in an area occupied by creatures, the wall of bones appears 
everywhere except where the creatures stand. Creatures in the affected area suffer an 
immediate 2-16 (2d8) hit points of damage when the wall appears. The wall can be 
smashed by creatures wielding blunt weapons with a Strength of 18 or greater. Every 10 
hit points of damage causes a 5 foot x 5 foot x 6 inch section of the wall to collapse. The
wall of bones is unaffected by animate dead. 
The material component for this spell is the branch of a withered tree taken from a 
cemetery

 Wall of Force
(Evocation)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn + 1 rd./level Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-ft. square/level Saving Throw: None
A wall of force spell creates an invisible barrier in the locale desired by the caster, up
to the spell's range. The wall of force cannot move and is totally unaffected by most
spells, including dispel magic. However, a disintegrate spell will immediately destroy it,
as will a rod of cancellation or a sphere of annihilation. Likewise, the wall of force is not
affected by blows, missiles, cold, heat, electricity, etc. Spells and breath weapons cannot
pass through it in either direction, although dimension door, teleport, and similar effects
can bypass the barrier.
The wizard can, if desired, form the wall into a spherical shape with a radius of up to 1
foot per level or an open hemispherical shape with a radius of 1.5 feet per caster level.
The wall of force must be continuous and unbroken when formed; if its surface is broken
by any object or creature, the spell fails. The caster can end the spell on command.
The material component for this spell is a pinch of powdered diamond worth 5,000 gp.

 Wall of Iron
(Evocation)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 15 sq. ft./level Saving Throw: None
or special
When this spell is cast, the wizard causes a vertical iron wall to spring into being. This
wall can be used to seal off a passage or close a breach, for the wall inserts itself into any
surrounding nonliving material if its area is sufficient to do so. The wall of iron is _-inch
thick per level of experience of the spellcaster. The wizard is able to create an iron wall
of up to 15 square feet per experience level; thus, a 12th-level wizard can create a wall of
iron with an area of 180 square feet. The wizard can double the wall's area by halving its
thickness.
If the caster desires, the wall can be created vertically resting on a flat surface, so that
it can be tipped over to fall on and crush any creature beneath it. The wall is 50% likely
to tip in either direction. This chance can be modified by a force of not less than 30
Strength and 400 pounds mass--each pound over 400 or Strength point over 30 alters the
chance by 1% in favor of the stronger side. Creatures with room to flee the falling wall
may do so by making successful saving throws vs. death. Those who fail are killed. Huge
and gargantuan creatures cannot be crushed by the wall.
The wall is permanent, unless successfully dispelled, but it is subject to all forces a
normal iron wall is subject to--rust, perforation, etc.
The material component of this spell is a small piece of sheet iron.

 Wall of Stone
(Evocation)
Range: 5 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a wall of granite rock that merges into adjoining rock surfaces. It is
typically employed to close passages, portals, and breaches against opponents. The wall
of stone is 0.25 inch thick and up to 20 square feet per level of experience of the wizard
casting the spell. Thus, a 12th-level wizard can create a wall of stone 3 inches thick and
up to 240 square feet in surface area (a 12-foot-wide and 20-foot-high wall, for example,
to completely close a 10-foot x 16-foot passage). The wall created need not be vertical,
nor rest upon any firm foundation (see the wall of iron spell); however, it must merge
with and be solidly supported by existing stone. It can be used to bridge a chasm, for
instance, or as a ramp. For this use, if the span is more than 20 feet, the wall must be
arched and buttressed. This requirement reduces the area of effect by half. Thus, a 20th 
level caster can create a span with a surface area of 200 square feet. The wall can be
crudely shaped to allow crenelations, battlements, and so forth by likewise reducing the
area. The stone is permanent unless destroyed by a dispel magic or disintegrate spell, or
by normal means such as breaking or chipping.
The material component is a small block of granite.

 Waveform* (Alteration) 
Range: 40 yards
Components: S, M
Duration: 1d10 rounds
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 10-foot-cube/level
Saving Throw: ½
By means of this spell, the wild mage is able to shape and direct the patterns of water 
currents, allowing him to mold liquids into a variety of forms. The spell affects a quantity 
of liquid no larger than the area of effect. If cast onto a larger body, such as an ocean or 
large lake, the spell affects only the water within the area of effect.
After casting waveform, the mage can form the water into any desired shape. The 
spell does not bind the liquid together in any fashion; it is still limited by its fluid 
properties and gravity. Thus, a mage could not use waveform to create a humanoid 
creature with arms and legs and direct it to walk across land. He could, however, create a 
roughly human shape with flowing arms that rises out of the water, crashes forward in a 
huge splash, then rises and repeats the process. Other possible shapes include gigantic 
waves, geysers, whirlpools, and troughs.
The shape takes one round to form, after which it can be maintained by concentration. 
The shape can be directed to move in any direction at the rate of 90 feet per round. If the 
waveform moves into or through a body of water, the form loses no intensity. However, if 
the wave is moved over dry ground, it loses one die of damage for every 10 feet crossed.
If propelled against a target, the waveform causes 1d4 points of damage per level of 
the caster to creatures in its path. The waveform can be directed against creatures on the 
surface or underwater. Those struck are allowed a saving throw; success indicates half 
damage.
If the victims are in or on a body of water, the shape will sweep them along. 
Creatures of small size are carried with the form, moving at its speed. Medium and large 
size creatures are swept along at half the water's speed. Creatures larger than this resist 
the movement. Those caught in the current can make a Strength check each round to 
swim free of the current.
Boats and ships are particularly vulnerable to the waveform. If the waveform is twice 
the size of the vessel or more, the ship must make a seaworthiness check (as described in 
Table 77 of the DMG ). Vessels passing the check suffer damage as described above, 
reducing seaworthiness ratings for future checks by 2d6 points until repairs are made.
Alternatively, this spell can be cast directly at a single water-based creature--a water 
weird, water elemental, or other creature from the elemental plane of water. In this case, 
the spell causes 1d6 points of damage per level of the caster. The effect is instantaneous 
and the spell ends immediately after the attack is made.
The material component is a small, carved oar decorated with aquamarines worth at 
least 500 gp. The oar disintegrates when the spell is cast.

 Fourth-Level Spells

 Addition (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers, Creation
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
The philosophy of the Sphere of Numbers holds that the structure of reality--the 
"equation of the moment"--can be analyzed and modified by someone with sufficient 
knowledge and power. The addition spell allows a priest to add a new mathematical term 
to the equation of the moment. This effectively allows a new object or even a living 
creature to be brought into existence temporarily.
The effect of this spell varies depending on the level of the caster. At 10th level or 
lower, addition can create a single, inanimate object weighing up to 10 pounds. The spell 
gives the priest only rudimentary control over the creation process, so the object cannot 
be complex. The object must be described in a single word or short phrase (e.g., "a water 
pitcher" or "a block of stone"). The caster has no control over elements such as shape or 
color; thus, the water pitcher might be short, squat, and blue, or tall, slender, and red.
Objects created with this spell cannot be of any greater mechanical complexity or 
technological level than a crossbow. If the priest tries to create an object that breaks this 
prohibition, the spell fails and nothing is created. Thus, if the priest tried to create "a 
pistol," assuming he had heard the word somewhere, the spell would fail.
Objects cannot contain any information in an abstract form such as writing or 
diagrams. If the priest tries to create an object that breaks this prohibition, there are two 
possible results: the spell may fail, or the object may be created without the information. 
Thus, if the priest were to attempt to create "a spellbook," the result would be either a 
book similar to a spellbook with blank pages, or nothing at all.
The object appears at whatever location the caster wills, as long as it is within spell 
range. The object cannot appear in the same space occupied by another object or creature, 
or within a hollow object (for example, the priest cannot create an object blocking the 
trachea of an enemy).
The object created by addition remains in existence for 1 turn per level of the caster. 
During this time, it obeys all the laws of physics as if it were a "real" object. The object 
cannot be disbelieved and spells such as true seeing cannot distinguish it from a 
naturally-occurring object.
Priests of 11th to 15th level can create a single inanimate object of up to 20 pounds in 
mass or two identical objects, each of up to five pounds in mass. The object(s) so created 
remains in existence for two hours (12 turns) per level of the caster. 
Priests of 16th to 19th level can create a single inanimate object of up to 50 pounds in 
mass or up to 10 identical objects, each of up to five pounds in mass. The object(s) is 
permanent unless destroyed. Since these objects are not magical constructs, but real 
additions to the "equation of the moment," dispel magic has no effect on them. 
Alternatively, the caster can create a single normal (nonmonstrous) living creature of up 
to 20 pounds in weight. The creature, once created, behaves as a normal member of its 
species; the caster has no control over its actions. This creature remains in existence for 5 
rounds per level of the caster.
Priests of 20th level and above can create a single inanimate object of up to 100 
pounds in mass or up to 10 identical objects, each of up to 10 pounds in mass. The 
object(s) are permanent. Alternatively, the caster can create a single normal 
(nonmonstrous) living creature of up to 100 pounds in weight and up to 2 hit dice. The 
creature, once created, behaves as a normal member of its species; the caster has no 
control over its actions. This creature remains in existence for 2 turns per level of the 
caster.
The material component is a small table of numerological formulae inscribed on an 
ivory plaque, plus a length of silken cord. During the casting, the priest ties the cord into 
a complex knot. As the magical energy is discharged, the cord vanishes in a flash of light. 
The plaque is not consumed in the casting. 

 Abjure
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Special
This spell can send an extraplanar creature back to its own plane of existence. The
spell fails against entities of demigod status or greater, but their servants or minions can
be abjured. If the creature has a specific (proper) name, it must be known and used. Any
magic resistance of the subject must be overcome, or the spell fails. The priest has a 50%
chance of success (a roll of 11 or better on 1d20). The roll is adjusted by the difference in
level or Hit Dice between the caster and the creature being abjured; the number needed is
decreased if the priest has more Hit Dice and increased if the creature has more Hit Dice.
If the spell is successful, the creature is instantly hurled back to its own plane. The
affected creature must survive a system shock check. If the creature does not have a
Constitution score, the required roll is 70% + 2%/Hit Die or level. The caster has no
control over where in the creature's plane the abjured creature arrives. If the attempt fails,
the priest must gain another level before another attempt can be made on that particular
creature.
The spell requires the priest's holy symbol, holy water, and some material inimical to
the creature.

 Age Plant (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One plant, seed, or tree/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to affect the aging of any plant, seed, or tree. The process 
can operate either forward or backward, causing flowers to blossom, seeds to sprout and 
grow, and trees to bear fruit; or fruit to turn to blossoms, trees to become saplings, and 
new shoots to turn to seeds.The change in age, either forward or backward, is chosen by the priest at the time of 
casting. The changes associated with normal or reversed growth occur instantaneously. 
Plants can be altered in age up to 10 years per level of the caster. The caster can stop the 
aging at any point within the limits imposed by his level; he could cause a tree to grow 
from a sapling until it withers and dies from old age or he could stop the tree's growth at a 
stage at which it would shelter his home. 
The spell does not alter the appearance or characteristics of a plant except those that 
result from normal aging (or regression). Age plant has no effect on magically-generated 
plants or plant-type monsters.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and the petal from an apple 
blossom. 

 Animal Summoning I
(Conjuration, Summoning)
Sphere: Animal, Summoning
Range: 1 mi. radius Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster calls up to eight animals that have 4 Hit Dice or less,
of whatever sort the caster names when the summoning is made. Only animals within
range of the caster at the time the spell is cast will come. The caster can try three times to
summon three different types of animals. For example, a caster first tries to summon wild
dogs to no avail, then unsuccessfully tries to call hawks, and finally calls wild horses that
may or may not be within summoning range. The DM must determine the chance of a
summoned animal type being within the range of the spell. The animals summoned aid
the caster by whatever means they possess, staying until a fight is over, a specific mission
is finished, the caster is safe, he sends them away, etc. Only normal or giant animals can
be summoned; fantastic animals or monsters cannot be summoned by this spell (no
chimerae, dragons, gorgons, manticores, etc.).

 Blessed Warmth (Alteration) 
Sphere: Sun
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a narrow shaft of light shines down upon the priest, making 
him immune to the effects of natural cold (such as a blizzard) and granting him a +3 
bonus to saving throws vs. magical cold (such as a white dragon's breath weapon).
For each level of the priest above 7th, an additional beam of light may be created to 
protect another creature, who must be standing within 3' of the priest. Thus, a 10th-level 
priest could protect four other creatures in a 3' radius. 

 Body Clock (Alteration) 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
Body clock affects a subject in the following ways.
• The subject's need for sleep is reduced. For every hour that a subject sleeps, he is as 
refreshed as if he slept 10 hours. For every two hours that a subject sleeps during the spell 
(20 hours of rest), he regains hit points as if he spent a day of complete rest. However, 
wizards are not able to memorize spells; "real" time must pass for this to occur.
• The subject's need to breathe is reduced. He breathes only 10% as often as normal 
for the duration of the spell, enabling him to hold his breath 10 times longer than normal 
and use less air in enclosed situations.
• The subject can set an internal "alarm clock" to alert him when a specific amount of 
time has passed. The subject then hears a brief ringing in his ears, audible only to him. 
The ringing is loud enough to wake the subject. He can set as many internal alarm clocks
as he wishes, as long as they all occur within the duration of the spell.
The spell has no effect on movement, spellcasting, or any other normal activities.
The material components are a kernel of corn, a drop of water, and a stoppered glass 
bottle. 

 Call Woodland Beings
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Summoning
Range: 100 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: Neg.
By means of this spell, the caster is able to summon certain woodland creatures to his
location. Naturally, this spell works only outdoors, but not necessarily only in wooded
areas. The caster begins the incantation and continues uninterrupted until some called
creature appears or two turns have elapsed. (The verbalization and somatic gesturing are
easy, so this is not particularly exhausting to the spellcaster.) Only one type of the
following sorts of beings can be summoned by the spell. They come only if they are
within the range of the call.
The caster can call three times, for a different type each time. Once a call is successful,
no other type can be called without another casting of the spell. (The DM will consult his
outdoor map or base the probability of any such creature being within spell range upon
the nature of the area the caster is in at the time of spellcasting.)
The creature(s) called by the spell are entitled to a saving throw vs. spell (with a -4
penalty) to avoid the summons. Any woodland beings answering the call are favorably
disposed to the spellcaster and give whatever aid they are capable of. However, if the
caller or members of the caller's party are of evil alignment, the creatures are entitled to
another saving throw vs. spell (this time with a +4 bonus) when they come within 10
yards of the caster or another evil character with him. These beings immediately seek to
escape if their saving throws are successful. In any event, if the caster requests that the
summoned creatures engage in combat on his behalf, they are required to roll a loyalty
reaction check based on the caster's Charisma and whatever dealings he has had with
them.
This spell works with respect to neutral or good woodland creatures, as determined by
the DM. Thus, the DM can freely add to or alter the list as he sees fit.
If the caster personally knows a certain individual woodland being, that being can be
summoned at double the normal range. If this is done, no other woodland creatures are
affected.
If a percentage chance is given in the accompanying table, druids and other nature based
 priests add 1% per caster level. These chances can be used if no other campaign
information on the area is available.
The material components of this spell are a pine cone and eight holly berries.

Creature ---------------- Type of Woodlands --------------
Type Called    Light    Moderate/Sylvan     Dense/Virgin
2d8 brownies   30%          20%                10%
1d4 centaurs    5%          30%                 5%
1d4 dryads      1%          25%                15%
1d8 pixies     10%          20%                10%
1d4 satyrs      1%          30%                10%
1d6 sprites     0%           5%                25%
1 treant        --           5%                25%
1 unicorn       --          15%                20%

 Chaotic Combat (Invocation/Evocation) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
When chaotic combat is cast on a fighter, he is inspired beyond his years of training 
and is suddenly struck with numerous insights for variations on the standard moves of 
attack and defense. The spell affects only warriors.
Unfortunately, these insights are helpful in only two-thirds of the warrior's attacks. In 
the remaining attacks, the spell actually impairs the warrior's standard performance. At 
the beginning of each round, after the player has declared his character's actions, 1d6 is 
rolled for the affected warrior. On a roll of 1, 2, 3, or 4, the warrior gains bonuses of +2 
to attack rolls and +2 to armor class. On a roll of 5 or 6, the warrior suffers a -2 penalty to 
attack rolls and a -2 penalty to armor class. This must be determined at the beginning of 
the round so that both the warrior and his opponents can apply the necessary changes.
The insight imparted by this spell is lost after the spell expires. The insight is 
generated by chaos, which is nearly impossible to contain. After the spell expires, the 
warrior remembers the battle but not the specifics of his actions. He is unable to duplicate 
the maneuvers. 

 Chaotic Sleep (Alteration) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
After casting this spell, the priest must successfully touch his victim. The victim is 
then allowed a saving throw to avoid the spell's effect. If the saving throw is failed, the 
spell takes effect at the next sunrise or sunset (whichever comes first).
From the time the spell takes effect until the spell is negated, the sleeping pattern of 
the victim is randomly disrupted. At sunset and sunrise of every day, a check is made to 
determine the effects of chaotic sleep. In the 12-hour period that follows the check, there 
is an equal chance that the character will be unable to sleep or unable to remain awake 
(roll 1d6; on a roll of 1-3, the character is awake, on a roll of 4-6, he sleeps). This 
condition lasts until the next sunrise (or sunset) when the check is made again.
For example, a fighter fails to save against chaotic sleep. For the next few hours, the 
spell has no effect. At sundown, the first check is made, resulting in a 2. The fighter does 
not notice anything until he tries to sleep that night, at which time he is wide awake, 
fidgeting and restless. At sunrise, another die roll is made, resulting in a 6. The fighter is 
suddenly exhausted and sleeps until sunset.
Characters who sleep as a result of this spell can be roused only by physical stimuli--a 
slap or a wound, for example. Once awake, the character remains conscious only as long 
as there are active stimuli around him, such as a fight. Walking through caves or riding a 
horse will not keep the character awake. Unlike a sleep spell, characters affected by 
chaotic sleep doze off as soon as they are left relatively undisturbed. Keeping an affected 
character awake is difficult at best.
Lack of sleep will eventually take a physical toll on any character under the influence 
of the spell. For every 12-hour period that a character remains awake beyond the first, he 
suffers a -1 penalty to THAC0. Such characters do not regain hit points as a result of 
normal healing. Spellcasters cannot memorize spells until they have had sufficient sleep.
Chaotic sleep can be removed with a remove curse.
The material components are a pinch of sand and three coffee beans. 

 Circle of Privacy (Alteration) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: 50-foot-diameter circle
Saving Throw: None
This spell helps to discourage predators and trespassers from disturbing a campsite. 
The caster sprinkles salt in a circle enclosing an area up to 50 feet in diameter. For the 
duration of the spell, all sounds and scents generated within the circle are muted, making 
the area less noticeable to those outside the circle. Therefore, the group's chance of 
encounter is reduced by 50% for the duration of the spell. The spell provides no 
protection against infravision or other forms of magical detection.
The material components are a hair from a skunk, a whisker from a mouse, and 
enough salt to make a 50-foot-diameter circle.  

 Cloak of Bravery
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Reversible
Sphere: Charm
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The cloak of bravery spell can be cast upon any willing creature. The protected
individual gains a bonus to his saving throw against any form of fear encountered (but
not awe--an ability of some lesser and greater powers). When cast, the spell can affect
one to four creatures (caster's choice). If only one is affected, the saving throw bonus is
+4. If two are affected, the bonus is +3, and so forth, until four creatures are protected by
a +1 bonus. The magic of the cloak of bravery spell works only once and then the spell
ends, whether or not the creature's saving throw is successful. The spell ends after eight
hours if no saving throw is required before then.
The reverse of this spell, cloak of fear, empowers a single creature touched to radiate a
personal aura of fear, at will, out to a 3-foot radius. All other characters and creatures
within this aura must roll successful saving throws vs. spell or run away in panic for 2d8
rounds. Affected individuals may or may not drop items, at the DM's option.
The spell has no effect upon undead of any sort. The effect can be used only once, and
the spell expires after eight hours if not brought down sooner. Members of the recipient's
party are not immune to the effects of the spell.
The material component for the cloak of bravery spell is the feather of an eagle or
hawk. The reverse requires the tail feathers of a vulture or chicken.

 Compulsive Order (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
The victim of compulsive order is compelled to place everything he encounters into 
perfect order. If he discovers treasure, he divides it into tidy piles or containers of silver, 
gold, and copper. He is reluctant to enter a dungeon because it is a messy place, but once 
inside, he is obsessed with cleaning it. A character under the power of this spell will 
sweep dirt from dungeon corridors into neat piles, arrange the corpses of a defeated orc 
band according to size, dash forward to remove a bit of lint on clothing, and insist that the 
party organize themselves alphabetically, then by size, and then by age. While the spell 
does not affect a character's abilities, the overwhelming desire for order impairs the 
character's usefulness in most adventures.
When a character afflicted by this spell attempts to undertake a new event (begin a 
battle, haggle with the merchant, etc.), the player must rationalize the action on the basis 
of his compulsion for order. Thus, the character cannot simply attack a goblin; he must 
announce a condition such as attacking the tallest goblin and fighting his way down 
according to size. Once stated, the character must follow through with this plan.
If the player cannot conceive a rationale for his character's behavior, the character is 
forced to delay his actions for 1d6 rounds, with the time spent in preparation for the 
subsequent action. The character spends time arranging spell components artistically, 
deciding how to hold his sword, cleaning his weapon, etc.
Anyone affected by compulsive order may become violent if he is prevented from 
being neat. He will do what he must to make the world around him more orderly. If he is 
allowed to organize his surroundings, he will quickly calm down again. The victim will 
constantly petition the people around him to be neat and organized.
The victim is allowed a saving throw to avoid the effects of the spell. Compulsive 
order can be removed with a dispel magic spell.
The material component is a perfect cube made of metal. 

 Control Temperature, 10' Radius
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 4 turns + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the temperature surrounding the caster can be altered by 10 F.,
either upward or downward, per level of experience of the spellcaster. Thus, a 10th-level
caster could raise or lower the surrounding temperature from 1 to 100 degrees. The spell
can be used to ensure the comfort of the caster and those with him in extreme weather
conditions. The party could stand about in shirt sleeves during the worst blizzard
(although it would be raining on them) or make ice for their drinks during a scorching
heat wave.
The spell also provides protection from intense normal and magical attacks. If the
extreme of temperature is beyond what could be affected by the spell (a searing blast of a
fireball or the icy chill of a white dragon), the spell reduces the damage caused by 5
points for every level of the caster. Normal saving throws are still allowed, and the
reduction is taken after the saving throw is made or failed. Once struck by such an attack,
the spell immediately collapses.
The material component for this spell is a strip of willow bark (to lower temperatures)
or raspberry leaves (to raise temperatures).

 Cure Serious Wounds
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell is a more potent version of the cure light wounds spell. When laying his
hand upon a creature, the priest heals 2d8+1 points of wound or other injury damage to
the creature's body. This healing cannot affect noncorporeal, nonliving, or extraplanar
creatures.
Cause serious wounds, the reverse of the spell, operates similarly to the cause light
wounds spell, the victim having to be touched first. If the touch is successful, 2d8+1
points of damage are inflicted.

 Defensive Harmony (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 5 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round+2d4 rounds
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: One creature/two levels
Saving Throw: None
This spell must be cast on at least two creatures. The priest may affect one creature 
per two levels of his experience, and all creatures to be affected must be within three feet 
of each other at the time of casting. After the spell is completed, affected characters may 
move about freely.
Defensive harmony grants affected creatures a defensive bonus by bestowing an 
enhanced coordination of their attacks and defenses. The affected creatures must be 
involved in a single battle so that their efforts harmonize to the benefit of all involved. 
For example, the affected creatures can attack one dragon or a group of orcs in a single 
area. They can also attack additional enemy forces that arrive in the same combat. If the 
enemy forces divide and flee, the affected creatures can follow, continue to attack, and 
benefit from the spell. If the affected group is split into two smaller groups when 
attacked, however, it gains no benefit from defensive harmony.
While the spell is in effect, each affected creature gains a +1 bonus to armor class for 
every other creature benefitting from the spell, to a maximum bonus of +5 (although 
more than five characters may be affected by the spell). Thus, if four creatures are 
affected by defensive harmony, each creature gains a +3 bonus to armor class.
This bonus represents a mystical coordination of effort on the part of all affected 
creatures. A fighter will naturally wage his attack to distract the troll attacking the thief. 
The ranger will instinctively block the swing of an orc, thereby protecting the wizard. 
Creatures affected by the spell are not consciously aware of these efforts, and they are 
unable to create specific strategies and tactics. 

 Detect Animal Attacker (Divination)
Sphere: Animal
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 creature
Saving Throw: None
Depending on how it is cast, detect animal attacker gives the druid a visual image 
either of a creature that injured an animal or of an animal that attacked any victim.
While casting the spell upon any victim of an attack by a natural animal (a victim 
whose body still bears the marks of claws, fangs, or other natural weapons), the druid 
touches the victim's wound. This brief touch gives the caster a fleeting vision of the 
animal that caused the injuries as it looked at the time of the attack. 
Likewise, a druid casting the spell upon an injured real-world animal can touch its 
wound and receive a vision of the person, monster, or animal that harmed it.
Even if the caster receives a vision of an unfamiliar attacker, the character usually 
can get an idea of its size, primary attack method, and alignment. (The druid senses good, 
evil, or neutrality.) 
In addition, if the creature still lives and fails a saving throw vs. spell, the caster 
senses its current position, location, and direction of travel.
Detect animal attacker works only within one hour per level of the caster after the 
victim receives the injury in question. The spell is effective regardless of whether the 
attack proved fatal.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol.

 Detect Lie
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
A priest who casts this spell is immediately able to determine if the subject creature
deliberately and knowingly speaks a lie. It does not reveal the truth, uncover
unintentional inaccuracies, or necessarily reveal evasions. The subject receives a saving
throw vs. spell, which is adjusted only by the Wisdom of the caster--for example, if the
caster has a Wisdom of 18, the subject's saving throw roll is reduced by 4 (see Table 5:
Wisdom).
The material component for the detect lie spell is one gp worth of gold dust.
The spell's reverse, undetectable lie, prevents the magical detection of lies spoken by
the creature for 24 hours.
The reverse requires brass dust as its material component.

 Dimensional Folding (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 10-foot circle
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the caster to selectively warp the fabric of space, folding it into 
higher dimensions.
This effect can be best explained through an example. If an ant crawling along the 
west edge of a map decided to travel to the east edge of the map, it would have to crawl 
the full width of the map. But if the map were folded in two so that the east and west 
edges were touching, the ant would travel almost no distance at all. The ant's world (the 
map) would have been folded through the third dimension. The dimensional folding spell 
does something similar with the three-dimensional world: it folds it through a higher 
dimension (the fourth), allowing instantaneous travel between two locales on the same 
plane of existence.
Although this effect may seem similar to the wizard spell teleport, in practice, it is 
much different. The dimensional folding spell opens a gate that allows instantaneous, 
bidirectional access to a distant locale on the same plane. This gate is circular, of any size 
up to 10' in diameter, and remains in existence for up to 1 full round. The caster and any 
other creatures can pass through the gate in either direction while it remains open. Missile 
weapons and magic spells can also pass through the gate.
The gate appears as a shimmering ring, glowing with a faint light equivalent to 
starshine. Vision through the gate is clear and unobstructed in both directions, allowing 
the priest to "look before he leaps." However, anyone on the other side of the gate is able 
to see the priest and his point of origin.
The "near side" of the gate always appears within 5 feet of the priest. The location of 
the "far side" of the gate always opens within 5 feet of the place the priest desires. Thus, 
there is no chance of arriving at the wrong destination, as with the wizard spell teleport.
There is a risk involved in using dimensional folding, however. Many philosophers 
believe that what we know as time is simply another dimension, and the behavior of this 
spell seems to support this thesis. Unless the priest is extremely familiar with the 
destination, there is a significant chance that any creature passing through a dimensional 
folding gate will suffer instantaneous aging. Theorists believe that this is the same kind of 
"slippage" that can cause a teleporting wizard to land high or low, except that in this case, 
the slippage is in the time dimension.
The chance of this instantaneous aging occurring depends on how familiar the priest 
is with the destination. The table that follows outlines the conditions and effects of aging.


Destination is:    | Chance of aging | Amount of  aging
Very familiar*     | 2%              | 1 year 
 Studied carefully | 5%              | 1d2 years 
 Seen casually     | 10%             | 1d3 years 
 Viewed once       | 15%             | 1d6 years 
 Never seen        | 25%             | 1d10 years 

* Use this row if the desired location is within view of the priest. 

If the die roll indicates that aging occurs, every creature that passes through the gate 
in either direction suffers the aging effect. Multiple creatures passing through the gate in 
the same direction all age by the same amount determined by a single die roll. Although 
the chance of aging is low and the potential amount of aging is minimal for familiar 
destinations, the effects can add up and become significant over time.
Although the word "destination" is used to refer to the "far end" of the gate, the priest 
need not be the one doing the traveling. For example, a priest may open the gate near a 
distant ally so he may travel instantaneously to join the priest.
The material component is a sheet of platinum "tissue" worth at least 15 gp, which the 
priest folds intricately during the casting. The tissue is consumed when the gate closes. 

 Divination
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
A divination spell is used to garner a useful piece of advice concerning a specific goal,
event, or activity that will occur within a one-week period. This can be as simple as a
short phrase, or it might take the form of a cryptic rhyme or omen. Unlike the augury
spell, this gives a specific piece of advice.
For example, if the question is "Will we do well if we venture to the third level?" and a
terrible troll guarding 10,000 gp and a shield +1 lurks near the entrance to the level (the
DM estimates the party could beat the troll after a hard fight), the divination response
might be: "Ready oil and open flame light your way to wealth." In all cases, the DM
controls what information is received and whether additional divinations will supply
additional information. Note that if the information is not acted upon, the conditions
probably change so that the information is no longer useful (in the example, the troll
might move away and take the treasure with it).
The base chance for a correct divination is 60%, plus 1% for each experience level of
the priest casting the spell. The DM makes adjustments to this base chance considering
the actions being divined (if, for example, unusual precautions against the spell have been
taken). If the dice roll is failed, the caster knows the spell failed, unless specific magic
yielding false information is at work.
The material components of the divination spell are a sacrificial offering, incense, and
the holy symbol of the priest. If an unusually important divination is attempted, sacrifice
of particularly valuable gems, jewelry, or magical items may be required.

 Earthmaw (Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (earth)
Range: 50 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10-foot diameter circle
Saving Throw: Neg.
Earthmaw causes a patch of ground 10 feet in diameter to open and form a gigantic 
mouth with stalactite teeth. The mouth springs forth on a short serpentine neck, much like 
a water weird, and attacks once in a direction the caster dictates. Then it retracts into the 
earth and closes solidly. The site of an earthmaw spell appears as if the ground has been 
tilled recently.
The mouth can attack one large creature, two man-sized creatures, or four smallsized creatures within 10 feet of its outer edge. It can strike multiple creatures only if they 
remain clustered within a 10-foot diameter circle adjacent to the maw.
The earthmaw attacks as a monster with Hit Dice equal to the caster's level. 
Creatures standing on the site of the maw suffer a +3 penalty to Armor Class for purposes 
of this attack only. Creatures standing next to the maw suffer no AC penalty.
A successful hit inflicts 1d4 points of damage per level of the caster. An unmodified
roll of 19 or 20 means the maw has swallowed the victim whole, burying the character 
2d4 feet below ground. Victims can be dug out manually, with appropriate spells (such as 
dig), or with magical items (such as a spade of colossal excavation). A creature trapped 
underground will suffocate unless freed within a number of rounds equal to one-third its 
Constitution score.
Earthmaw may be cast on any area of loose or packed earth, sand, or vegetationcovered soil. It may be cast indoors on an earthen surface: for example, on the dirt floor 
of a barn or basement, but not on the marble floor of a home or temple. It may not be cast 
on an area containing a tree, any portion of a building, or any type of pavement. 
An object present on the site of the maw (such as a campfire or a tent, etc.) counts as 
a creature of that object's size in attacks. The material component is a tooth from any predatory creature.

 Fire Purge (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-yard square/priest
Saving Throw: None
An area enchanted with fire purge is protected against all types of normal and 
magical fires. Normal fires (including camp fires, torches, and oil fires) cannot burn in 
the area of effect. Magical fires (including fiery dragon breath, other creature-generated 
fires, and spell-related fires such as burning hands and fireball) cause only 50% of their 
normal damage. Additionally, creatures within the area of effect receive a +4 bonus to 
saving throws made vs. fire attacks, regardless of whether the attacks originate inside or 
outside the warded area.
Fire purge has no effect on fires that are within the area of effect when the spell is 
cast, (i.e., it does not extinguish existing fires).
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a scorched sliver of wood.
Fire purge can be cast as cooperative magic. If a number of priests cast this spell 
simultaneously, its effectiveness is significantly increased. The duration of the spell is 
then equal to 1 turn per level of the most powerful priest plus 1 turn for every other 
contributing priest. The area of effect is a square whose sides equal the number of priests 
times 10 yards (thus, six priests could create a 60-yard by 60-yard square of protection).

 Focus (Invocation) 
Sphere: All
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 day
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates the necessary conditions for devotional energy to be used. For faith 
magic to work, the priest must create a focus to harness the necessary devotional energy. 
This spell creates that focus. A focus cannot function without a source of devotional 
energy.
The focus gathers devotional energy and reshapes it in order to amplify other spells 
cast by the priest (or priests). The same energy keeps the focus in existence. If the spell is 
cast and there is no immediate source of devotional energy within 100 feet, the focus
immediately fails.
Once created, most foci cannot be moved. This condition and the need for a constant 
supply of devotional energy tends to limit the use of foci to temples, churches, 
monasteries, shrines, and seminaries--permanent structures where followers of the 
religion gather on a regular basis. Sometimes a focus is created for a special gathering 
such as a holy day, conclave, grand wedding, or yearly festival.
Not all foci are identical. The particular form of the focus depends on the power and 
nature of the spell being amplified. All foci can be seen by detect magic. There are three 
basic types of foci: site, item, and living.
Site foci are connected to a place, whether a room, building, field, or forest. Once 
cast, the foci cannot be moved. It causes no disturbance in the surroundings; it is invisible 
and intangible.
Item foci are centered on a single object. Customarily, this object is large and 
immovable, such as an altar, but it is possible for the focus to be as small as is practical. 
The item can be as elaborate or plain as desired, but should have some significance to the 
religion.
Living foci are the rarest of all types. In this case, the focus is created on a living 
plant, animal, or person. Detect charm reveals the person is somehow enchanted, 
although not under the influence of a typical charm spell.
The type of focus created (site, item, or living) depends on the religion and nature of 
the spell amplified. These choices are listed in Table 3: Focused Spell Effects.
Casting the focus spell is a long and complicated process, accompanied by many 
ceremonies and rituals. During the day spent casting the spell, the priest will need the 
assistance of at least two other priests of the same faith. These aides need not memorize 
the spell (or even be capable of casting it). Their duty is to provide the extra hands and 
voices needed at specific points of the casting. A large number of worshipers must also 
be present since the focus requires their energy. Not surprisingly, the casting of this spell 
is often incorporated into important holy festivals or special occasions.
The duration of the focus is one year. If the devotional energy falls below a minimum 
level, the spell ends sooner. A focus requires the devotional energy of at least 100 devout 
worshipers. Lay monks (those dedicated to the religion but not priests) count as two 
worshipers, while priests (of any level) count as ten. A focus could be maintained by a 
congregation of 100, a monastery of fifty, or a seminary of as few as 10 priests (or any 
combination of the above). The focus must receive this energy for at least 10 hours out of 
every day. If these conditions are not met, the focus weakens. The area of effect of the 
amplified spell decreases by 20% each day until it fades away completely.
Once the focus is created, the priest or priests have 1 turn in which to cast the desired 
spell upon the focus. A focus can amplify only one spell, and each item, creature, or place 
can receive only one focus. Spells that can be cast upon a focus are listed on Table 3. 

Table 3: FOCUSED SPELL EFFECTS 

 Spell | Possible Focus Type
Anti-animal shell S/I/L 
Anti-plant shell S/I/L 
 Bless S/I 
Control temperature, 10' radius S* 
Control winds S/I* 
Cure disease I/L 
Cure blindness or deafness I/L 
Detect poison S/I 
Detect lie I 
Detect magic I 
Dispel evil S/I 
Endure cold/endure heat S* 
Know alignment I/L 
Negative plane protection S/I 
Protection from evil S/I 
Protection from lightning S 
Protections from fire S 
Purify food and drink I 
Remove fear S/I/L 
Remove curse I 
 Repel insects S/I 
Resist fire/resist cold S 
Speak with animals S/I/L 
Tongues S/I 
True seeing S 

* The caster must state a desired range (temperature, wind strength, etc.) within the 
spell's normal limitations at the time it is cast.

Once the spell is cast, the normal duration and area of effect for that spell are ignored. 
The focus begins to increase these factors of the spell's power. After one day, the 
amplified spell reaches its full area of effect. Thereafter, it remains over that area until the 
focus fails.
The area affected by the focus (and its amplified spell) depends on the level of the 
caster. The spell expands in a radius from the focus, 20 feet per level of the caster, 
although it can deliberately be created smaller. Within that area of effect, the amplified 
spell exerts its normal effect. A 13th-level priest could create a focus up to 260 feet in 
diameter.
The material components are many, including special vestments, incense, oils, waters, 
and other equipment the DM deems appropriate. The cost of these materials is never less 
than 1,000 gp plus 100 gp per level of spell being amplified. These items are given up as 
offerings to the deity (perhaps to be distributed to the poor), and new ones must be 
obtained each time the spell is cast. 

 Free Action
(Abjuration, Enchantment)
Sphere: Charm
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the creature touched to move and attack normally for the duration of
the spell, even under the influence of magic that impedes movement (such as web or slow
spells) or while under water. It even negates or prevents the effects of paralysis and hold
spells. Under water, the individual moves at normal (surface) speed and inflicts full
damage, even with such cutting weapons as axes and swords and with such smashing
weapons as flails, hammers, and maces, provided that the weapon is wielded in the hand
rather than hurled. The free action spell does not, however, allow water breathing
without further appropriate magic.
The material component is a leather thong, bound around the arm or similar
appendage, which disintegrates when the spell expires.

 Fortify (Necromancy) 
Sphere: Healing
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: Creature touched
Saving Throw: None
This is a simple cooperative magic spell. Only one priest can cast the spell, but like 
mystic transfer, another priest is required for the spell to have any effect. Through this 
spell, the priest improves the quality of another priest's healing spells.
For the fortify spell to work, it must be cast simultaneously with a cure light wounds, 
cure serious wounds, or cure critical wounds. The priest casting fortify must lay his hand 
on the priest attempting the cure. When both spells are cast, additional energy flows 
through the second priest and into the creature being healed. Fortify automatically causes 
the cure spell to function at maximum effect. Thus, a cure serious wounds would 
automatically heal 17 points of damage and a cure critical wounds would heal 27 points 
of damage.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol. 

 Giant Insect
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Animal
Range: 20 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time:7
Area of Effect: 1 to 6 insects Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the priest can turn one or more normal-sized insects into larger
forms resembling the giant insects described in the Monstrous Manual. Only one type of
insect can be altered at one time (i.e., a single casting cannot affect both an ant and a fly)
and all insects affected must be grown to the same size. The number of insects and the
size to which they can be grown depends upon the priest's level:

Priest's |  Insect   |  Maximum
Level    |  Hit Dice |  Total HD
  7-9    |     3     |      9
10-12    |     4     |     12
   13+   |     6     |     15

For example, an 8th-level priest can grow three insects to 3 Hit Dice, four insects to 2
Hit Dice, or nine insects to 1 Hit Die. Flying insects of 3 Hit Dice or more can carry a
rider of human size (assume that such can carry 80 pounds per Hit Die).
If the casting is interrupted for any reason, or if the insects are currently subject to any
other magical effect (including this one), the insects die and the spell is ruined. The DM
decides how many normal insects of what type are available; this is often a greater
limitation on the spell than the limits above.
If the insect created by this spell matches an existing monster description, use the
monster description. Otherwise, unless the DM creates a special description, the giant
form has an Armor Class of between 8 and 4, one attack, and inflicts 1d4 points of
damage per Hit Die.
For example, a 14th-level priest uses the giant insect spell to enlarge one beetle (all
that is available) to 6 HD size. The DM decides the beetle has AC 5 and bites once for
6d4 points of damage.
Note that the spell works only on actual insects. Arachnids, crustaceans, and other
types of small creatures are not affected. Any giant insects created by this spell do not
attempt to harm the priest, but the priest's control of such creatures is limited to simple
commands ("attack," "defend," "guard," and so forth). Orders to attack a certain creature
when it appears or guard against a particular occurrence are too complex. Unless
commanded to do otherwise, the giant insects attempt to attack whoever or whatever is
near them.
The reverse of the spell, shrink insect, reduces any giant insect to normal insect size.
The number of Hit Dice affected by the priest is subtracted from the number of Hit Dice
of the insects, and any insect reduced to 0 Hit Dice has been shrunk. Partial shrinking is
ignored; an insect is either shrunk or unaffected. Thus, a 9th-level priest attacked by giant
ants could shrink three warrior ants or four worker ants to normal insect size with no
saving throw. This spell has no effect on intelligent insectlike creatures.
The priest must use his holy symbol for either version of the spell.

 Genius (Divination) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Caster
Saving Throw: None
This spell is similar to idea, except that the priest's player can ask the DM one 
question about any event occurring at the moment. The question must be somehow 
related to evaluation of the current situation, such as "What are these monsters?" 
Speculation about the future, such as "What's on the other side of the door?" is not 
permitted.
As with idea, the DM must be careful in adjudicating this spell. The answer to the 
question should always be relevant and correct, although not necessarily complete, and 
should not be unbalancing to the situation. The answer can also be cryptic, in the form of 
a riddle or rhyme, depending on the DM's assessment of the situation. In general, the 
answer will be a single word or a short phrase of no more than five words.
The material component is a gem of at least 50 gp value. This spell can be cast only 
once in any 12-hour period. Subsequent attempts to cast the spell result in no answer. 

 Hallucinatory Forest
(Illusion/Phantasm)
Reversible
Sphere: Plant
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 40-ft. sq./level Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, a hallucinatory forest comes into existence. The illusionary
forest appears to be perfectly natural and is indistinguishable from a real forest. Priests
attuned to the woodlands--as well as such creatures as centaurs, dryads, green dragons,
nymphs, satyrs, and treants--recognize the forest for what it is. All other creatures believe
it is there, and movement and order of march are affected accordingly. Touching the
illusory growth neither affects the magic nor reveals its nature. The hallucinatory forest
remains until it is magically dispelled by a reverse of the spell or a dispel magic spell.
The area shape is either roughly rectangular or square, in general, and at least 40 feet
deep, in whatever location the caster desires. The forest can be of less than maximum
area if the caster wishes. One of its edges can appear up to 80 yards away from the caster.

 Hold Plant
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1d4 plants in 40-ft. sq. Saving Throw: Neg.
The hold plant spell affects vegetable matter as follows: 1) it causes ambulatory
vegetation to cease moving; 2) it prevents vegetable matter from entwining, grasping,
closing, or growing; 3) it prevents vegetable matter from making any sound or movement
that is not caused by wind. The spell effects apply to all forms of vegetation, including
parasitic and fungoid types, and those magically animated or otherwise magically
empowered. It affects such monsters as green slime, molds of any sort, shambling
mounds, shriekers, treants, etc. The duration of a hold plant spell is one round per level of
experience of the caster. It affects 1d4 plants in a 40-foot x 40-foot area, or a square 4 to
16 yards on a side of small ground growth such as grass or mold. If only one plant (or 4
yards square) is chosen as the target for the spell by the caster, the saving throw of the
plant (or area of plant growth) is made with a -4 penalty to the die roll; if two plants (or 8
yards square) are the target, saving throws suffer a -2 penalty; if three plants (or 12 yards
square) are the target, saving throws suffer a -1 penalty; and if the maximum of four
plants (or 16 yards square) are the target, saving throws are unmodified.

 Hunger (Alteration)
Sphere: Animal, Plant
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level of caster
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 person
Saving Throw: Neg.
Those affected by hunger no longer gain sustenance from food. No matter how much 
they eat, they still feel hungry. If the spell did not end, victims eventually would starve, 
visibly wasting away.
After one day under the spell's effect, victims' concentration suffers (due to their 
preoccupation with their constant hungry feeling), causing them to suffer a -2 penalty to 
all ability and proficiency checks. On the eighth day without food, victims who have been 
maintaining normal activity levels lose 1 Strength point; on the ninth day, they lose 1 
Constitution point. This alternating pattern continues until one of the character's ability 
scores falls to 3; at this point, the character becomes comatose. If a score reaches 0 before 
the hunger spell ends, the recipient dies. The victim regains lost points after the spell 
ends at a rate of 1 Strength and 1 Constitution point per day.
When casting the spell, the character secretly whispers a particular type of food; by 
eating the specified food, the victim breaks the spell. It must be a single, natural food 
(such as lamb, honey, or an apple) but can be exotic (dragon meat) as long as the caster 
has tasted it personally at some point.
Hunger cannot be dispelled, but can be broken by the remove curse spell. Failing all 
else, a sufferer must wait to find relief until the spell's duration elapses.
The spell's material component is a pinch of the food that can end the spell.

 Imbue With Spell Ability
(Enchantment)
Sphere: Charm
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until used Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Person touched Saving Throw: None
By the use of this spell, the priest can transfer a limited number and selection of his
currently memorized spells, and the ability to cast them, to another person. Only
nonspellcasters (including rangers under 8th level and paladins under 9th level) can
receive this bestowal; the imbue with spell ability enchantment does not function for
those belonging to spellcasting classes, for unintelligent monsters, nor for any individual
with less than 1 full Hit Die. In addition, the person thus imbued must have a Wisdom
score of 9 or higher. Only priest spells of an informational or defensive nature or a cure
light wounds spell can be transferred. Transferring any other spell type negates the entire
attempt, including any allowable spells that were chosen. Higher level persons can
receive more than one spell at the priest's option:

Level of Recipient Spells Imbued
1                  One 1st-level spell
3                  Two 1st-level spells
5+                 Two 1st- and one 2nd-level spells

The transferred spell's variable characteristics (range, duration, area of effect, etc.)
function according to the level of the priest originally imbuing the spell.
A priest who casts imbue with spell ability upon another character loses the number of
1st- and 2nd-level spells he has imbued until the recipient uses the transferred spells or is
slain. For example, a 7th-level priest with five 1st- and four 2nd-level spells imbues a
10th-level fighter with a cure light wounds spell and a slow poison spell. The cleric now
can have only four 1st-level spells memorized until the cure is cast and only three 2ndlevel
 spells until the slow poison is cast, or until the fighter is killed. In the meantime, the
priest remains responsible to his ethos for the use to which the spell is put.
The material components for this spell are the priest's holy symbol, plus some minor
item from the recipient that is symbolic of his profession (a lockpick for a thief, etc.).
This item, and any material component for the imbued spell, is consumed when the imbue
with spell ability spell is cast.

 Inverted Ethics (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: 120 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell reverses the ethics of a person or group of people. While under the 
influence of this spell, a creature behaves in a manner opposite to the way he normally 
would behave. Thus, a shopkeeper influenced by inverted ethics will think it perfectly 
normal for someone to pick up an item from his shop and walk out the door without 
paying for it. If someone tried to pay for an item, he would be insulted. If the spell is cast 
on a shopper in a store, he would find it natural to steal the item, thinking that he is 
behaving in a proper way. If the spell is cast on a professed thief, he will no longer steal, 
choosing to pay for his goods instead.
Inverted ethics does not cause a creature to actively commit evil deeds (or good 
deeds). Thus, an affected creature will not go on a shoplifting rampage; he will steal only 
as the opportunity presents itself.
The spell affects one character per level of the caster within a 20' radius. Each target 
of the spell is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effect.
The material component is a miniature golden balance (i.e., similar to the scales of 
justice). 

 Join With Astral Traveler (Alteration) 
Sphere: Astral
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: The caster
Saving Throw: None
When a priest casts the 7th-level astral spell, he leaves his physical body in 
suspended animation while his astral body travels. By touching the comatose body and 
casting join with astral traveler, a priest can cause his own astral body to leave his 
physical body in suspended animation. His astral body then travels along the silver cord 
of the originally projected priest. The caster joins the projected priest as if he were part of 
the original casting of the astral spell; i.e., his own silver cord is connected to the priest's 
silver cord, and he is dependent upon the originally projected priest.
A priest who casts the 7th-level astral spell can project as many as seven other 
creatures along with himself. However, priests casting join with astral traveler are an 
exception to this limit. Any number of priests may join another priest in the Astral plane 
by use of this spell.

 Knurl (Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 5 yards/level of caster
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level of caster
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 person
Saving Throw: Neg.
Casting a knurl spell transforms a creature's arm into a tree branch of the same 
thickness, covered with bark and twigs. The new limb possesses neither elbow nor wrist 
joints not even a hand. The "arm" remains attached to the shoulder. The spell's recipient 
can use it as a club but not to manipulate tools, weapons, or spell components.
The caster chooses which of the recipient's arms to affect. A character could use
 multiple knurl spells to transform both arms of a humanoid. The arm is treated for all 
purposes as a tree branch: It becomes subject to fire, wood-altering spells, and tree 
diseases. Dispel magic ends the spell's effects.
The material component is a small twig.

 Leadership (Enchantment/Charm, Alteration) Reversible 
Sphere: War
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell can be cast in one of two variations. The first, appropriate for battlefield 
use, has a range of 240 yards, duration of 1d4+6 turns, and a casting time of 1 turn. The 
priest can cast the spell on any single individual (a commander or hero) within his line of 
sight.
While under the influence of this spell, the subject's command radius is increased by 
50% (round fractions up).
The reverse of this variation, doubt, requires the target to make a saving throw vs. 
spell. If failed, doubt halves the command radius (round fractions down) of the targeted 
individual for 1d3+4 turns.
The material component for this variation is a pinch of steel dust.
The second variation must take place in or within 100' of a place of worship officially 
dedicated to the casting priest's deity. Both the priest and the individual to be affected 
must be present. The casting time is 5 turns and involves an intricate ritual and many 
prayers. At the conclusion of the spell, the subject's command radius is doubled. This 
effect lasts 2d12 hours.
The priest can cast either aspect (but not both at once) on himself. No individual can 
be the subject of more than one casting of this spell at one time, whether different aspects 
or cast by different priests. If more than one spell is attempted on the individual, only the 
most recent casting takes effect. 
The material component for the second variation is the priest's holy symbol. 

 Lower Water
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Water)
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The lower water spell causes water or similar fluid in the area of effect to sink away to
a minimum depth of 1 inch. The depth can be lowered by up to 2 feet for every
experience level of the priest. The water is lowered within a square area whose sides are
10 feet long per caster level. Thus, an 8th-level priest affects a volume up to 16 feet x 80
feet x 80 feet, a 9th-level caster affects a volume up to 18 feet x 90 feet x 90 feet, and so
on. In extremely large and deep bodies of water, such as deep ocean, the spell creates a
whirlpool that sweeps ships and similar craft downward, putting them at risk and
rendering them unable to leave by normal movement for the duration of the spell. When
cast on water elementals and other water-based creatures, this spell acts as a slow spell:
The creature moves at half speed and makes half its usual number of attacks each round.
The spell has no effect on other creatures.
Its reverse, raise water, causes water or similar fluids to return to their highest natural
level: spring flood, high tide, etc. This can make fords impassable, float grounded ships,
and may even sweep away bridges at the DM's option. It negates lower water and vice
versa.
The material components of this spell are the priest's holy (or unholy) symbol and a
pinch of dust.

 Mental Domination (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 50 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3 rounds/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell is similar to the wizard spell domination in that it establishes a telepathic 
link between the priest and the subject through which the priest can control the subject's 
bodily movements. There are some significant differences between the spells, however.
Elves and half-elves have no innate resistance to this spell. Priest and subject need not 
share a common language. The priest can force the subject into combat, but the subject's 
attack rolls suffer a -2 penalty. The priest cannot force the subject to cast spells or use any 
innate magical or magiclike abilities. The priest can force the subject to speak, although 
the priest cannot inject a full range of emotions into the subject's voice (everything said 
by the subject is in a monotone).
This spell gives the priest no access to the subject's thoughts, memory, or sensory 
apparatus. Thus, the priest cannot see through the subject's eyes. To control the subject, 
the priest must be within the range of the spell and must be able to see the subject. 
Breaking either of these conditions causes the spell to terminate immediately.
This spell requires a moderate level of concentration by the priest. While maintaining 
this spell, he can move or enter combat, but cannot cast another spell. If the priest is 
wounded, rendered unconscious, or killed, the spell immediately terminates.
If the priest is 10th level or lower, he or she cannot force the subject to perform 
particularly delicate actions, such as picking a lock. At 11th level or higher, however, this 
restriction is removed. The priest could thus force a thief to pick a lock. Any such 
delicate actions suffer a -15% penalty (or -3 on 1d20) to reflect the "remote control" 
nature of the action.
The material component is a mesh of fine threads that the priest loops around the 
fingertips of one hand and manipulates in the way that a puppeteer controls a puppet. 

 Modify Memory (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: Special
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell enables the caster to reach into the subject's mind and modify up to five 
minutes of his memory in one of the following ways:
•Eliminate all memory of an event the subject actually experienced. This spell cannot 
negate charm, suggestion, geas, quest, or similar spells.
•Allow the subject to recall with perfect clarity an event he actually experienced. For 
instance, he could recall every word from a five-minute conversation or every detail from 
a passage in a book.
•Change the details of an event the subject actually experienced.
•Implant a memory of an event the subject never experienced.
Casting the spell takes one round. If the subject fails to save vs. spell, the caster 
proceeds with the spell by spending up to five minutes visualizing the memory he wishes 
to modify in the subject. If the caster's concentration is disturbed before the visualization 
is complete, the spell is lost.
Modified memory will not necessarily affect the subject's actions, particularly if they 
contradict his natural inclinations. An illogical modified memory, such as the subject 
recalling how much he enjoyed drinking poison, will be dismissed by the subject as a bad 
dream or a memory muddied by too much wine. More useful applications of modified 
memory include implanting memories of friendly encounters with the caster (inclining the 
subject to act favorably toward the caster), changing the details of orders given to the 
subject by a superior, or causing the subject to forget that the caster cheated him in a card 
game. The DM reserves the right to decide whether a modified memory is too nonsensical 
to significantly affect the subject. 

 Needlestorm (Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 60 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 tree or plant
Saving Throw: Save vs. spell for half damage
A favorite of cold-forest and desert druids, needlestorm causes the spines on any 
pine tree or similar needle-bearing plant to spray out in a deadly barrage. The shower of 
needles has a radius of approximately 1 foot for every 2 feet of the subject plant's height.
Everyone within this area suffers one attack, which inflicts 1d12 points of damage 
for every three full levels the caster has achieved. Thus, a spruce tree enchanted by a 7th
 level character attacks with a THAC0 of 16 and inflicts 2d12 points of damage.
The material component is a spine from a needle-bearing tree or plant.

 Neutralize Poison
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature or 1 cu. ft. of substance/2 levels Saving Throw: None
By means of a neutralize poison spell, the priest detoxifies any sort of venom in the
creature or substance touched. Note that an opponent, such as a poisonous reptile or
snake (or even an envenomed weapon of an opponent) unwilling to be so touched
requires the priest to roll a successful attack in combat. This spell can prevent death in a
poisoned creature if cast before death occurs. The effects of the spell are permanent only
with respect to poison existing in the touched creature at the time of the touch; thus,
creatures (and objects) that generate new poison are not permanently detoxified.
The reversed spell, poison, likewise requires a successful attack roll, and the victim is
allowed a saving throw vs. poison. If the latter is unsuccessful, the victim is incapacitated
and dies in one turn unless the poison is magically neutralized or slowed.

 Plant Door
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The plant door spell opens a magical portal or passageway through trees, undergrowth,
thickets, or any similar growth--even growth of a magical nature. The plant door is open
to the caster who cast the spell, casters of a higher level, or dryads; others must be shown
the location of the door. The door even enables the caster to enter a solid tree trunk and
remain hidden there until the spell ends. The spell also enables the passage or hiding of
any man-sized or smaller creature; hiding is subject to space considerations. If the tree is
cut down or burned, those within must leave before the tree falls or is consumed, or else
they are killed also. The duration of the spell is one turn per level of experience of the
caster. If the caster opts to stay within an oak, the spell lasts nine times longer than
normal; if within an ash tree, it lasts three times longer. The path created by the spell is
up to 4 feet wide, 8 feet high, and 12 feet long per level of experience of the caster. This
spell does not function on plant-based monsters (shambling mounds, molds, slimes,
treants, etc.).
The material components for this spell are a piece of charcoal and the caster's holy
symbol.

 Probability Control (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell allows the priest to increase or decrease by a small margin the probability 
of success for one action. This action can be anything that requires a die roll--an attack, a 
saving throw, an attempt to use thieving skills, an ability check, or even an attempt to 
successfully teleport on target. The action must be something performed by a single 
creature.
The basic modification is 15% (15 on 1d100 or 3 on 1d20), plus an additional 5% per 
five levels of the caster. This modification can be either positive or negative, as deemed 
by the spellcaster. Thus, a 10th-level priest can modify a subject's saving throw or attack 
roll by +5 or -5, or a thief's "climb walls" roll by +25% or -25%. The priest may cast this 
spell on himself.
For a noncombat action such as an attempt to climb a wall, the priest simply casts the 
spell on the subject immediately before the action is attempted, informing the DM 
whether the modification is positive or negative. To use this spell in combat, the priest 
must specify the action to be affected (e.g., the target's next attack roll) and whether the 
modification will be positive or negative. The spell remains in effect until the subject 
attempts the specified action or until a number of rounds equal to the caster's level passes. 
If the latter occurs, the spell ends without effect.
Once the spell is cast, the priest does not need to maintain any level of concentration; 
the spell will function even if the casting priest is killed before the spell takes effect.
The subject of the spell has no way of knowing whether any modification made by 
this spell is positive or negative (or even whether he was the subject of the spell at all). 
Thus, a lying priest could claim to raise a thief's chance of climbing the wall, while 
actually lowering it. The thief would be none the wiser. However, an unwilling subject of 
this spell receives a normal saving throw to negate its effect.
The material components are a small cube of a thickened sugar-and-milk mixture and 
a cubic die of matching size. Both are consumed in the casting. 

 Produce Fire
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 40 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd. Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 12-ft. sq. Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster creates a common fire of up to 12 feet per side in
area. Though it lasts only a single round (unless it ignites additional flammable material),
the fire produced by the spell inflicts 1d4 points of damage plus 1 point per caster level
(1d4 + 1/level) upon creatures within its area. It ignites combustible materials, such as
cloth, oil, paper, parchment, wood, and the like, so as to cause continued burning.
The reverse, quench fire, extinguishes any normal fire (coals, oil, tallow, wax, wood,
etc.) within the area of effect.
The material component for either version is a paste of sulfur and wax, formed into a
ball and thrown at the target.

 Protection From Evil, 10' Radius
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
The globe of protection of this spell is identical in all respects to that of a protection
from evil spell, except that it encompasses a much larger area and its duration is greater.
The effect is centered on and moves with the creature touched. Any protected creature
within the circle will break the warding against enchanted/summoned monsters if he
attacks those monsters. A creature unable to fit completely into the area of effect (for
example, a 21-foot-tall titan) remains partially exposed and subject to whatever penalties
the DM decides. If such a creature is the recipient of the spell, the spell acts as a normal
protection from evil spell for that creature only.
The reverse, protection from good, 10’ radius, wards against good creatures.
To complete this spell, the priest must trace a circle 20 feet in diameter using holy (or
unholy) water and incense (or smoldering dung), according to the protection from evil
spell.

 Protection From Lightning
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection, Weather
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The effect of a protection from lightning spell changes depending on who is the
recipient of the magic--the caster or some other creature. In either case, the spell lasts no
longer than one turn per caster level.
If the spell is cast upon the caster, it confers complete invulnerability to electrical
attack such as dragon breath, or magical lightning such as lightning bolt, shocking grasp,
storm giant, will 'o wisp, etc., until the spell has absorbed 10 points of electrical damage
per level of the caster, at which time the spell is negated.
If the spell is cast upon another creature, it gives a bonus of +4 to the die roll for saving
throws made vs. electrical attacks, and it reduces the damage sustained from such attacks
by 50%.
The caster's holy symbol is the material component.

 Rapport (Divination, Alteration) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn+1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: None
This spell is a deeper and more intense version of telepathy. It allows the priest to 
communicate silently and instantly with a single willing subject. Participants may share 
deeper thoughts than with telepathy, including emotions and memories. Each participant 
sees, hears, and otherwise senses everything experienced by the other, although such 
vicarious experiences feel diluted and cannot be mistaken for direct sensations.
The participants can quickly share such personal concepts as plans, hopes, and fears, 
but they cannot share skills or spells. Thus, it is impossible to communicate the procedure 
for casting a particular spell or for picking a lock.
Communication through rapport is approximately 15 times faster than verbal 
communication. As with telepathy, the priest can establish separate "channels" to 
multiple individuals; each such linkage costs one casting of the spell. There is no 
"crosstalk" between the channels, however.
Rapport cannot be used on unwilling subjects. 

 Reflecting Pool
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 10 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 2 hrs.
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to cause a pool of normal water found in a natural setting
to act as a scrying device. The pool can be of no greater diameter than 2 feet per level of
the caster. The effect is to create a scrying device similar to a crystal ball. The scrying
can extend only to the Ethereal Plane and the Inner Planes (which includes the
paraelemental planes, the Demiplane of Shadow, etc.). General notes on scrying,
detection by the subject, and penalties for attempting to scry beyond the caster's own
plane are given in the DMG, as well as a description of the crystal ball item.
The following spells can be cast through a reflecting pool, with a 5% per level chance
for operating correctly: detect magic, detect snares and pits, and detect poison. Each
additional detection attempt requires a round of concentration, regardless of success.
Infravision, if available, operates normally through the reflecting pool.
The image is nearly always hazy enough to prevent the reading of script of any type.
The material component is the oil extracted from such nuts as the hickory and the
walnut, refined, and dropped in three measures upon the surface of the pool. (A measure
need be no more than a single ounce of oil.)
At the DM's option, the casting of this spell may be limited to once per day.

 Repel Insects
(Abjuration, Alteration)
Sphere: Animal, Protection
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 10-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast, the priest creates an invisible barrier to all sorts of insects, and
normal insects do not approach within 10 feet of the caster while the spell is in effect.
Giant insects with Hit Dice less than 1/3 of the caster's experience level are also repelled
(for example, 2 Hit Dice for 7th- to 9th-level casters, 3 Hit Dice at 10th through 12th
level, etc.). Insects with more Hit Dice can enter the protected area if the insect is
especially aggressive and, in addition, rolls a successful saving throw vs. spell. Those that
do sustain 1d6 points of damage from passing through the magical barrier. Note that the
spell does not in any way affect arachnids, myriapods, and similar creatures--it affects
only true insects.
The material components of the repel insects spell include any one of the following:
several crushed marigold flowers, a whole crushed leek, seven crushed stinging nettle
leaves, or a small lump of resin from a camphor tree.

 Solipsism (Alteration) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 10 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 100 sq. ft.+100 sq. ft./level
Saving Throw: Special
This unusual spell is similar to phantasmal force and other illusion magic, except that 
the priest who casts the spell is the only creature who automatically believes the results of 
the spell. The spell creates the illusion of any object, creature, or force, as long as it is 
within the boundaries of the spell's area of effect. The illusion is visual and tactile (that is, 
it can be seen and felt), but no other sensory stimuli are created.
Solipsism is the opposite of normal illusions in that anyone other than the caster must 
make an active effort to believe (rather than dis believe) the illusion. Characters trying to 
believe the reality of a solipsistic illusion must make a saving throw vs. breath weapon, 
modified by the magical defense adjustment for Wisdom. A successful save means that 
the character believes the illusion and it is part of reality for him. A failed save means 
that the character cannot convince himself of the illusion's reality, and the illusion has no 
effect on him. A character can make a single attempt to believe each round.
Unlike true illusions, the image created by this spell does more than just duplicate 
reality. The image formed is real for those who believe in it. The illusion has all the 
normal properties that its form and function allow. Thus, a solipsistic bridge spanning a 
chasm could be crossed by the priest and those who believed. All others would see the 
priest apparently walking out onto nothingness. Likewise, a solipsistic giant would cause 
real damage to those who believed it.
The illusion remains in effect for as long as the priest continues to concentrate on it, 
until the priest is struck in combat, or until he is rendered unconscious. The level of 
concentration required is not extreme; the priest can move normally and may engage in 
combat, but is unable to cast any spell while maintaining a solipsistic illusion.
Solipsism can create only illusions that are external to the priest. Thus, the priest 
cannot create an illusion that he is the size of a giant, is unwounded, or has sprouted 
wings.
The material components are a lotus blossom that the priest must swallow and a bit of 
fleece. 

 Speak With Plants
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 30-ft. radius Saving Throw: None
When cast, a speak with plants spell enables the priest to converse, in very rudimentary
terms, with all sorts of living vegetables (including fungi, molds, and plantlike monsters,
such as shambling mounds) and to exercise limited control over normal plants (i.e., not
monsters or plantlike creatures). Thus, the caster can question plants as to whether or not
creatures have passed through them, cause thickets to part to enable easy passage, require
vines to entangle pursuers, and command similar services. The spell does not enable
plants to uproot themselves and move about, but any movements within the plants'
normal capabilities are possible. Creatures entangled by the 1st-level spell of that name
can be released. The power of the spell lasts for one round for each experience level of
the casting priest. All vegetation within the area of effect is affected by the spell.
The material components for this spell are a drop of water, a pinch of dung, and a
flame.

 Spell Immunity
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Protection
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the priest renders a creature touched immune to the effects of a
specified spell of 4th level or lower. It protects against spells, spell-like effects of magical
items, and innate spell-like abilities of creatures. It does not protect against breath
weapons or gaze attacks of any type.
The spell has several additional limitations. First, the caster must have directly
experienced the effect of the specified spell. For example, if the caster has been attacked
by a fireball spell at some time, he can use the spell immunity spell to provide protection
from a fireball. Second, the spell cannot affect a creature already magically protected by a
potion, protective spell, ring, or other device. Third, only a particular spell can be
protected against, not a certain sphere of spells or a group of spells that are similar in
effect; thus, a creature given immunity to the lightning bolt spell is still vulnerable to a
shocking grasp spell.
The material component for spell immunity is the same as that for the spell to be
protected against.

 Sticks to Snakes
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Plant
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 1d4 sticks + Saving Throw: None
1 stick/level in a 10-ft. cube
By means of this spell, the caster can change 1d4 sticks, plus one stick per experience
level, into snakes; thus, a 9th-level priest can change 10-13 sticks into an equal number of
snakes. These snakes attack as commanded by the priest. There must, of course, be sticks
or similar pieces of wood (such as torches, spears, etc.) to turn into snakes. Such a stick
cannot be larger than a staff. Sticks held by creatures are allowed a saving throw equal to
that of the possessor (i.e., a spear held by an orc must roll the orc's saving throw vs.
polymorph). Magical items, such as staves and enchanted spears, are not affected by the
spell. Only sticks within the area of effect are changed.
The type of snake created varies, but a typical specimen has 2 Hit Dice, Armor Class 6,
a movement rate of 9, and either constricts for 1d4+1 points of damage per round or bites
for 1 point plus poison (if any). The chance of a snake thus changed being venomous is
5% per caster level, if the spellcaster desires. Thus, an 11th-level priest has a maximum
55% chance that any snake created by the spell is poisonous. The spell lasts for two
rounds for each experience level of the spellcaster.
The material components of the spell are a small piece of bark and several snake
scales.
The reverse spell changes normal-sized snakes to sticks for the same duration, or it
negates the sticks to snakes spell according to the level of the priest countering the spell
(for example, a 10th-level priest casting the reverse spell can turn 11-14 snakes back into
sticks).

 Tanglefoot (Alteration, Abjuration) Reversible 
Sphere: War
Range: 240 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 turns/level
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: 100 sq. yards/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell temporarily doubles the movement cost of one region of ground. Units 
allied to the priest are unaffected and movement is made at normal cost; only enemy units 
suffer the penalty.
A variety of effects result from the spell depending on the terrain: grass twists 
hinderingly around troops' ankles, swamp becomes more viscous, rocks and gravel shift 
underfoot, etc.
The spell affects only units--that is, groups of soldiers moving in regular or irregular 
formation. The spell does not affect individuals or monsters moving and operating alone. 
(When using the BATTLESYSTEM™ rules, figures that represent individual heroes are 
not affected by this spell.)
When casting this spell, the priest must have an uninterrupted line of sight to the 
terrain to be affected. The priest can choose the shape of the area, up to the maximum 
area of effect. This spell can create only one continuous area of tanglefoot. There is no 
way of detecting that a particular area is under the influence of this spell simply by 
looking at the area. Detect magic will reveal that the area is magically affected.
The reverse of this spell, selective passage, cuts the movement cost of an area in half 
(round fractions up) for friendly units. Again, individual heroes and creatures are not 
affected by this spell (which means that advancing troops must be careful not to leave 
their leader behind!).
The material component is a drop of molasses for tanglefoot, and a pinch of 
powdered graphite for selective passage.

 Thought Broadcast (Alteration) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn+3 rounds/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell turns the subject into a "thought broadcaster." For the duration of the spell, 
everyone within 30 yards of the subject senses the subject's thoughts, making it 
impossible for him to lie, keep secrets, conceal motives, etc. The subject is not 
automatically aware that his thoughts are being sensed. Everyone who senses these 
thoughts, on the other hand, knows their source.
This spell causes the broadcast of only surface thoughts and motivations, not 
memories. There is no need for a common language between broadcaster and receivers; 
for this purpose, thoughts are considered to be symbolic, not dependent on language. The 
detail level of the thoughts is insufficient for others to learn specific skills from the 
subject. Thus, if the subject casts a spell, everyone within range knows what spell is 
being cast before it takes effect, but no one learns any knowledge about how the spell is 
cast.
If the broadcaster is invisible or hiding in shadows, the broadcast functions normally, 
and all receivers are aware that someone is in the vicinity whom they cannot see. While 
receivers cannot pinpoint the broadcaster's location, the broadcaster's thoughts will 
inevitably reveal his general position ("Oh no, he's looking right at me," etc.). A character 
hiding in shadows will be automatically detected, while attacks against an invisible
broadcaster suffer a -2 penalty, rather than the normal -4. This spell totally negates the 
chance of surprise by the broadcaster.
The subject must have an Intelligence score of 1 or more to become a broadcaster, 
and must have a "normal" mind as understood by PCs. Thoughts that are broadcast can be 
received only by individuals with Intelligence scores of 3 or better. An unwilling subject 
receives a normal saving throw vs. spell to avoid the effects. A willing subject can waive 
this saving throw.
The material component is small balloon that the priest inflates upon casting. This 
balloon is consumed in the casting. 

 Tree Steed (Alteration, Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 4
Area of Effect: One log or plank
Saving Throw: None
This spell enchants a log, plank, or similar piece of wood to become a temporary 
steed. The log or plank must be at least one foot wide, three inches thick, and three to ten 
feet long. Any type of wood is suitable.
When the spell is cast, the log sprouts four wooden, horselike legs. The tree steed
may be ridden like a normal horse and may be used to carry equipment. The tree steed
can carry up to 600 pounds of riders and gear before breaking. If the tree steed breaks 
under the weight of the riders or gear, the enchantment instantly ends and the tree steed
again becomes a normal (although broken) log or plank.
The tree steed obeys all of the caster's verbal commands to move, slow, speed up, 
stop, and turn. It has a movement rate of 12 on land. It can move in the water (Sw 6), 
floating on the surface and paddling with its legs. The tree steed must remain within 10 
yards of the caster in order to move; if the distance between the tree steed and the caster 
exceeds 10 yards, the tree steed stops until the caster is again within range.
The tree steed will not fight for the caster and is incapable of any action other than 
movement. The tree steed does not become fatigued and does not eat. It has all the 
vulnerabilities of normal wood, including fire, and can be damaged by both magical and 
physical attacks. It has AC 8 and 20 hit points.
The material components are a log or plank of suitable size and a horseshoe.


 Tongues
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: The caster Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to speak and understand additional languages, whether
they are racial tongues or regional dialects, but not communications of animals or
mindless creatures. When the spell is cast, the spellcaster selects the language or
languages to be understood. The spell then empowers the caster with the ability to speak
and understand the language desired with perfect fluency and accent. The spell enables
the priest to be understood by all speakers of that language within hearing distance,
usually 60 feet. This spell does not predispose the subject toward the caster in any way.
The priest can speak one additional tongue for every three levels of experience.
The reverse of the spell cancels the effect of the tongues spell or confuses verbal
communication of any sort within the area of effect.

 Uplift (Alteration) 
Sphere: All
Range: 0
Components: V, M
Duration: 1 turn
Casting Time: 12 hours
Area of Effect: One priest
Saving Throw: None
Uplift bestows increased spellcasting ability on one priest, including additional spells 
per level and use of spells beyond the caster's normal level. This cooperative spell 
requires two priests who must spend the day casting this spell. During the casting, the 
priests must decide which additional spells (of all levels) are desired. Upon completion of 
the casting, the priests touch palms, and the priest of higher level receives a charge of 
magical energy. This charge temporarily boosts the level of the priest for spellcasting 
purposes. The amount of increase is one level per five levels of the lower level caster 
(fractions rounded up). If both priests are of equal level, the casters must decide who 
benefits from the spell.
The spell grants the priest the spellcasting ability of the new level. It does not 
improve hit points, attack rolls, or other abilities. If the increase allows more spells per 
level, the additional spells are instantly placed in the character's memory. A priest is also 
enabled to cast spells normally beyond his level. Range, duration, area of effect, and 
other variables are all based on the character's temporary level.
The increased effect lasts only 1 turn. At the end of the turn, all additional spells are 
lost and the character reverts to his normal level.
As an example, consider a party with a fallen comrade. The two priests in the party 
are 7th and 8th level, both unable to cast raise dead. After a night's rest, each priest adds 
uplift to his memorized spells. After casting the spell, the 8th-level priest suddenly gains 
the casting abilities of a 10th-level priest, including the ability to cast raise dead. At the 
end of one turn, the priest's abilities revert to 8th-level.
Casting this spell is an arduous task, causing a severe drain on the priests. When the 
spell expires, the uplifted character suffers 2d6 points of damage from mental exhaustion. 
This damage cannot be healed by any means until the character has had at least eight 
hours of rest.
The material components are the priests' holy symbols and an offering worth at least 
500 gp from each priest. 

 Weather Stasis (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards, Weather
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: None
Weather stasis maintains the weather conditions prevalent in the area of effect when 
the spell is cast. The spell affects a cube whose sides equal the caster's level times 10 feet 
(a 10th-level caster could affect a 100' x 100' x 100' cube).
An area protected by weather stasis is unaffected by temperature variations in the 
surrounding environment. The spell also acts as a shield against rain, snow, and hail, 
which cannot enter the protected area. If conditions of precipitation existed in the area of 
effect when the spell was cast, the identical weather will continue for the duration of the 
spell.
For example, weather stasis is cast in an area where the temperature is 75 F. and no 
precipitation is falling. Half an hour later, the temperature drops to 60 degrees and rain 
begins to fall. The protected area remains dry and the temperature stays at 75 degrees. If 
the spell had been cast while rain was falling in the area of effect, rain would continue to
fall for the duration of the spell, even after it stopped raining in the surrounding area.
All physical objects other than rain, snow, and hail can pass into the protected area. 
All creatures and characters can move freely into and out of the area. The spell does not 
prevent water-based spells or water-based creatures (such as water elementals) from 
operating in the area.
The spell protects against both natural and magically generated weather. Night and 
day pass normally in the protected area, although temperature variations associated with 
night and day do not occur.
 The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a drop of rain.

 Fifth Level Spells

 Age Object (Alteration) Reversible
Sphere: Time
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 1 cubic foot/level
Saving Throw: None
With this spell, the caster can cause an amount of nonliving, nonmagical matter to age 
dramatically. Matter can be aged up to 20 years per level of the caster. The following 
table gives typical results of 100 years of aging for various objects, arranged in order of 
descending severity: 

Object      | Result of Aging 
diamond     | none 
silver      |  becomes tarnished 
masonry     |  cracks and weakens 
iron        |  rusts and corrodes 
parchment   |  cracks, turns brittle 
wood        |  rots, crumbles, turns to sawdust

The caster controls the extent of the aging; thus, he could age a book so its pages 
become yellowed and brittle but stop short of causing the book to crumble to dust. As a 
guideline, each additional 100 years of aging causes an increasingly severe reaction. 
Thus, after 200 years, parchment might become little more than powder, while iron might 
begin to flake away at a touch.
Many items (especially gems) show little reaction to age. The DM must adjudicate all 
effects.
The material components are a flask of seawater and a piece of coal.
The reverse of this spell, youthful object, returns an object ravaged by the effects of 
time to its original condition; thus, rusty iron becomes strong and shiny, crumbled 
masonry becomes firm, and rotten wood becomes solid. The age of matter can be reduced 
by 20 years per level of the caster.
The material components for youthful object are a piece of eggshell and a hair from 
the head of a human or humanoid infant. 

 Air Walk
(Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (Air)
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour + 1 turn/level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
This spell enables a creature, which can be as big as the largest giant, to tread upon air
as if it were walking on solid ground. Moving upward is similar to walking up a hill. A
maximum upward angle of 45 degrees is possible at one-half the creature's movement
rate, as is a maximum downward angle of 45 degrees at the normal movement rate. An
air-walking creature is in control of its movement, except when a strong wind is blowing.
In this case, the creature gains or loses 10 feet of movement for every 10 miles per hour
of wind velocity. The creature can, at the DM's option, be subject to additional penalties
in exceptionally strong or turbulent winds, such as loss of control of movement or
suffering physical damage.
The spell can be placed upon a trained mount, so it can be ridden through the air. Of
course, a mount not accustomed to such movement would certainly need careful and
lengthy training, the details for which are up to the DM.
The material components for the spell are the priest's holy symbol and a bit of
thistledown.

 Animal Growth
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Animal
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Up to 8 animals Saving Throw: None
in a 20-ft. sq.
When this spell is released, the caster causes up to eight animals within a 20-footsquare 
area to grow to twice their normal size. The effects of this growth are doubled Hit
Dice (with resultant improvement in attack potential), doubled hit points (except hit
points added to Hit Dice), and doubled damage in combat. Movement and AC are not
affected. The spell lasts for two rounds for each level of the caster. The spell is
particularly useful in conjunction with a charm person or mammal spell.
The reverse reduces animal size by one-half, and likewise reduces Hit Dice, hit points,
attack damage, etc.
The material component for this spell and its reverse is the caster's holy symbol and a
scrap of food.

 Animal Summoning II
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Animal, Summoning
Range: 60 yds./level Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster calls up to six animals of 8 Hit Dice or less, or 12
animals of 4 Hit Dice or less--of whatever sort the caster names. Only animals within
range of the caster at the time the spell is cast will come. The caster can try three times to
summon three different types of animals. For example, suppose that wild dogs are first
summoned to no avail, then hawks are unsuccessfully called, and finally the caster calls
for wild horses. The DM determines the chance of a summoned animal type being within
range of the spell. The animals summoned aid the caster by whatever means they possess,
staying until a fight is over, a specific mission is finished, the caster is safe, he sends
them away, etc. Only normal or giant animals can be summoned; fantastic animals or
monsters cannot be effected by this spell (no chimerae, dragons, gorgons, manticores,
etc.).

 Anti-Plant Shell
(Abjuration)
Sphere: Plant, Protection
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 15-ft. diameter Saving Throw: None
The anti-plant shell spell creates an invisible, mobile barrier that keeps all creatures
within the shell protected from attacking plants or vegetable creatures such as shambling
mounds or treants. Any attempt to force the barrier against such creatures shatters the
barrier immediately. The spell lasts for one turn for each experience level of the caster.

 Atonement
(Abjuration)
Sphere: All
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: None
This spell is used by the priest to remove the burden of unwilling or unknown deeds
from the person who is the subject of the atonement. The spell removes the effects of
magical alignment changes as well. The person seeking the atonement spell must either
be truly repentant or not have been in command of his own will when the acts to be
atoned for were committed. The DM will judge this spell in this regard, noting any past
instances of its use upon the person. Deliberate misdeeds and acts of knowing and willful
nature cannot be atoned for with this spell (see the quest spell). A character who refuses
to accept an atonement is automatically considered to have committed a willful misdeed.
The priest needs his religious symbol, prayer beads or wheel or book, and burning
incense.

 Barrier of Retention (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10'-cube/level
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell creates a one-way invisible force field around the area of effect. The spell 
creates one 10' x 10' x 10' cube for every level of the caster. These can be arranged into 
any rectangular shape the caster desires.
Intruders entering the protected area suffer no ill effects, but the barrier of retention
prevents them from leaving. The spell affects all creatures who fail a saving throw vs. 
spell. The caster can pass in and out of the barrier freely.
Intruders trapped by the barrier of retention can cast spells out of the barrier and can 
use spells such as teleport to escape the protected area. Objects cannot be hurled out of 
the barrier but can be carried out by an escaping creature. Dispel magic and similar spells 
negate the barrier.
The material component is a small cage made of silver wire. The caster must walk 
around the perimeter of the area of effect when casting. 

 Blessed Abundance (Conjuration) 
Sphere: Creation
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 1 cubic foot/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows a priest to duplicate a specified amount of animal or vegetable 
matter. Magical items and minerals (including rocks, metals, and gemstones) cannot be 
duplicated. Although organic materials (such as food or living plants) can be duplicated, 
living creatures cannot be copied by this spell.
The caster can create 1 cubic foot of material per his experience level. The material to 
be duplicated must be equal to or less than 1 cubic foot in size or volume. For example, a 
9th-level priest can create up to 9 cubic feet of animal or vegetable matter. Using a loaf of 
bread 1 cubic foot in size, he can produce nine such loaves; using a bucket of apples 
totaling 1 cubic foot in volume, he can create nine such buckets.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol. 

 Champion's Strength (Alteration) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 2
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
Champion's strength bestows one member of a group with attack and damage 
bonuses from the rest of the group. The recipient of the spell can then fight as the group's 
champion.
The spell draws bonuses from one person for every two levels of the priest. All 
characters involved must be within a 30'-radius of the priest. At the time of casting, the 
priest designates the recipient of the spell and the contributors. All characters who 
contribute to the spell must do so willingly.
When the spell is completed, the designated character (the group's champion) gains 
any non-magical bonuses to THAC0 and damage possessed by the characters who 
contributed to the spell. Characters without bonuses or with combat penalties could 
conceivably be included in the spell; such characters count against the maximum number 
of creatures that can be affected. Penalties are likewise applied to the champion; 
contributors to this spell must be chosen carefully.
The bonuses gained through this spell are added to the character's own bonuses (if 
any). The champion channels the energy of others through himself, improving his 
fighting ability.
The champion must be in the line of sight and within 30 feet of the characters aiding 
him. Characters who contribute their bonuses must concentrate on the champion for the 
duration of the spell. If this concentration is broken (by moving more than 10 feet per 
round, fighting, being struck, or losing sight of the champion), that character's 
contribution is immediately lost.
The spell expires when the last character contributing power to the champion ceases 
concentration.
A champion may benefit from only one champion's strength spell at one time. 
Contributors can aid only one champion at one time.
The material component is a chain of five gold links worth at least 1,000 gp. 

 Chaotic Commands (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Chaos
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Special
Chaotic commands renders a creature immune to magical commands. Taunt, forget, 
suggestion, domination, geas, demand, succor, command, enthrall, quest, exaction, and 
other spells that place a direct verbal command upon a single individual automatically 
fail.
In addition, anyone casting one of these spells on a creature protected by chaotic 
commands must save vs. spell. Failure means that the caster must obey his own magic; 
the spell's effect has backfired on the caster.
The material component is a piece of eelskin. 

 Clear Path (Alteration) Reversible 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell clears away weeds, stones, and other debris in a 10-foot-wide path 
extending 10 feet in front of the caster. The caster can create a continuous path for the 
duration of the spell, clearing a 10-foot-square ahead of him as long as he continues to 
move forward. The spell affects jungles, forests, rocky ground, and snow.
The result of the cleared path is that movement costs are reduced by half. This is 
reflected in a reduction of the penalty against movement in rough terrain. (See Table 74 
of the Dungeon Master's Guide for terrain costs for movement.) For example, if clear 
path is used in heavy jungle, the movement cost is reduced from 8 to 4. In no case can 
clear path reduce movement cost below 1.
Clear path has no effect on rivers, lakes, or other bodies of water, nor does it affect 
quicksand, lava, or similar natural obstacles. It also has no effect on magically-created 
terrain or manmade barricades.
A priest using the clear path spell can be tracked easily. Tracking proficiency is not 
required.
The material components are a knife blade and a straw from a broom.
The reverse, clutter path, causes weeds, small stones, and similar debris to litter a 10-
foot path extending 10 feet behind the caster. This hides a trail, making tracking more 
difficult. The caster can create a continuous path for the duration of the spell. The chance 
to successfully track on a cluttered path is reduced by 50%.
The material components are a handful of pebbles and a handful of weeds. 

 Cloud of Purification (Evocation) 
Sphere: Elemental Air, Water
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: 20-foot cube
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a billowy cloud of magical vapors that moves in the direction of the 
prevailing wind at a rate of 20 feet per round. A strong wind (greater than 15 miles per 
hour) breaks it up in 4 rounds, and a greater wind (25 MPH or more) prevents the use of 
the spell. Thick vegetation disperses the cloud in 2 rounds.
The cloud of purification transmutes organic filth, garbage, and vermin (mice, rats, 
rot grubs, and so on) into an equal quantity of pure water. For example, a nest of rot 
grubs caught in the cloud would "melt," becoming small puddles of clean water. If the 
spell is cast over a body of water, the cloud merges with a portion of the water equal to its 
own size, transmuting any filth, microbes, small fish, or other "impurities" into clean 
water.
The cloud's vapors are heavier than air, so they sink to the lowest level of the land 
(even down holes in the ground). Thus, this spell is perfect for cleansing a sewer or well.
This spell in no way affects magical creatures or creatures larger than a normal rat. 

 Cloudscape (Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 120 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 3 turns/level of caster
Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1,000 cubic feet/level of caster
Saving Throw: None
A character can cast cloudscape on a single cloud or part of a cloud bank, usually 
from a nearby mountaintop or while flying. It causes 1,000 cubic feet of cloud per level 
of the caster to become solid enough to support any weight. The solidified clouds remain 
airborne and feel like a thick carpet.
A creature that falls onto the magically strengthened cloud sustains falling damage 
per the PH, p. 104. An animal or individual that flies into the solidified cloud falls,
stunned, for a round and must make a successful Dexterity check to recover. If a creature 
is flying through a cloud at the moment it becomes solidified, it may make a saving throw 
vs. petrification. Those who succeed escape the cloud in time. Creatures that fail the save 
become trapped as the cloud solidifies around them. However, as the cloud is porous, 
they can continue to breathe until the spell's duration elapses.The solidified cloud
 itself continues to drift with the wind as usual. While the caster 
cannot use this particular spell to propel the cloud at all, a control winds spell can 
summon a great gust of air to turn the cloudscape into a unique flying conveyance easily 
enough.

 Commune
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0 Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By use of a commune spell, the priest is able to contact his deity--or agents thereof--
and request information in the form of questions that can be answered by a simple "yes"
or "no." The priest is allowed one such question for every experience level he has
attained. The answers given are correct within the limits of the entity's knowledge. "I
don't know" is a legitimate answer, as powerful outer planar beings ar not necessarily
omniscient. Optionally, the DM may give a single short answer of five words or less. The
spell will, at best, provide information to aid character decisions. Entities communed with
structure their answers to further their own purposes. It is probable that the DM will limit
the use of commune spells to one per adventure, one per week, or even one per month, for
the greater powers dislike frequent interruptions. Likewise, if the caster lags, discusses
the answers, or goes off to do anything else, the spell immediately ends.
The material components necessary for a commune spell are the priest's religious
symbol, holy (unholy) water, and incense. If a particularly potent commune is needed, a
sacrifice proportionate with the difficulty of obtaining the information is required. If the
offering is insufficient, no information or only partial information is gained.

 Commune With Nature
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination, Elemental
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
This spell enables the caster to become one with nature, thus being empowered with
knowledge of the surrounding territory. For each level of experience of the caster, he can
"know" one fact--ahead, left, or right, about the following subjects: the ground, plants,
minerals, bodies of water, people, general animal population, presence of woodland
creatures, etc. The presence of powerful unnatural creatures also can be detected, as can
the general state of the natural setting. The spell is most effective in outdoor settings,
operating in a radius of one-half mile for each level of the caster. In natural underground
settings--caves, cavern, etc.--the range is limited to 10 yards per caster level. In
constructed settings (dungeons and towns), the spell will not function. The DM may limit
the casting of this spell to once per month.

 Consequence (Divination) 
Sphere: Numbers, Divination
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the priest to determine how one recent event fits into the "grand 
scheme." By casting this spell, the priest can determine whether the sequence or situation 
that gave rise to the specific event is complete or whether it is ongoing; whether it was a 
significant or insignificant event in the larger picture; or whether it will continue to have 
repercussions for the participants.
Using his knowledge of circumstances, the DM communicates these facts to the 
caster's player. This "arcane message" is normally straightforward and easy to 
understand, but in the case of highly complex circumstances, the message might be 
cryptic. In any case, the message will always be truthful.
As an example, consider a priest and his party who are on a holy quest to retrieve an 
item of power. On the way to the location of this item, the party is ambushed by evil 
creatures from the Inner Planes but manages to defeat them. Concerned that these 
creatures might be outlying guards protecting the item of interest, the priest casts 
consequence, hoping for guidance. The DM knows that these creatures have nothing to 
do with the quest; the encounter was coincidental. However, the surviving monsters will 
soon be returning with reinforcements to avenge their dead. Therefore, the DM tells the 
priest's player, "To your goals these have no place, but still they can cause more woe."
Casting this spell "taints" subsequent castings of the same spell within a 24-hour 
span. A second attempt within this period always results in the same message as the first, 
regardless of the true situation. If a second priest casts the spell within 24 hours of 
another casting, he receives an accurate reading.
The material component is three special coins or dice made of platinum (total value of 
at least 1,000 gp), which the priest tosses in his hand while concentrating on the spell. 
The coins or dice are not consumed in the casting.  

 Control Winds
(Alteration)
Sphere: Weather
Range: 0 Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect:40-ft./level radius Saving Throw: None
By means of a control winds spell, the caster is able to alter wind force in the area of
effect. For every three levels of experience, the caster can increase or decrease wind force
by one level of strength. Wind strengths are as follows:

Wind Force      |   Miles Per Hour
Light Breeze    |        2-7
Moderate Breeze |        8-18
Strong Breeze   |       19-31
Gale            |       32-54
Storm           |       55-72
Hurricane       |       73-176

Winds in excess of 19 miles per hour drive small flying creatures--those eagle-sized
and under--from the skies, severely affect missile accuracy, and make sailing difficult.
Winds in excess of 32 miles per hour drive even man-sized flying creatures from the
skies and cause minor ship damage. Winds in excess of 55 miles per hour drive all flying
creatures from the skies, uproot small trees, knock down wooden structures, tear off
roofs, and endanger ships. Winds in excess of 73 miles per hour are of hurricane force.
An "eye" of 40-foot radius, in which the wind is calm, exists around the caster. Note
that while the spell can be used underground, if the spell is cast in an area smaller than
the area of effect, the eye shrinks 1 foot for every foot of confinement. For example, if
the area of effect is a 360-foot area, the eye shrinks by 10 feet to a 30-foot radius; a space
under 320 feet in a radius would eliminate the eye and subject the spellcaster to the
effects of the wind. Once the spell is cast, the wind force increases or decreases by 3
miles per hour per round until the maximum or minimum speed is attained. The caster,
with one round of complete concentration, can stabilize the wind at its current strength, or
set it to increase or decrease. However, the rate of the change cannot be altered. The spell
remains in force for one turn for each level of experience of the caster. When the spell is
exhausted, the force of the wind wanes or waxes at the same rate, until it reaches the level
it was at before the spell took effect. Another caster can use a control winds spell to
counter the effects of a like spell up to the limits of his own ability.

 Cure Critical Wounds
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Healing
Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
The cure critical wounds spell is a very potent version of the cure light wounds spell.
The priest lays his hand upon a creature and heals 3d8+3 points of damage from wounds
or other damage. The spell does not affect creatures without corporeal bodies, those of
extraplanar origin, or those not living.
The reversed spell, cause critical wounds, operates in the same fashion as other causes
wounds spells, requiring a successful touch to inflict the 3d8+3 points of damage. Caused
wounds heal via the same methods as do wounds of other sorts.

  Disguise (Illusion/Phantasm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 200 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/3 levels
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: One unit up to 300 individuals
Saving Throw: None
This spell changes the appearance of a single unit so it resembles another unit. The 
disguise can cause the affected creatures to appear to be of another class, nationality, 
rank, race, alignment, or military affiliation (i.e., a unit from one army may appear 
wearing the armor and carrying the colors of another army). Disguise cannot change the 
size category of the unit's members. Thus, a unit of humans may appear to be a unit of 
elves, but may not appear as a unit of giants or halflings. The spell does not affect the size 
of the overall unit; a unit of 50 creatures will still appear to be a unit of 50 creatures.
The disguised unit may appear to be carrying any melee or personal missile weapons 
(e.g., axes, long swords, crossbows, etc.), and may appear to be wearing any type of 
armor. In combat, however, the unit attacks and defends with its real weapons and armor 
regardless of the gear they may appear to be carrying.
Disguise is most effective at long range. If another unit moves within 20 yards of a 
disguised unit, it automatically sees through the illusion.
The caster automatically sees through the illusion. Members of the subject unit see no 
change in their appearance. True seeing or similar magic is required for other individuals 
to see through the disguise (unless they move within 20 yards of the unit).
The material components are a fine silk veil and a length of woven platinum wire. 
The wire is consumed during the casting. 

 Dispel Evil
(Abjuration)
Reversible
Sphere: Protection, Summoning
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The priest using this spell causes a summoned creature of evil nature, an evil creature
from another plane, or a creature summoned by an evil caster, to return to its own plane
or place when the caster successfully strikes it in melee combat. Examples of such
creatures are aerial servants, djinn, efreet, elementals, and invisible stalkers. An evil
enchantment (such as a charm spell cast by an evil creature) that is subject to a normal
dispel magic spell can be automatically dispelled by the dispel evil spell. This spell lasts
for a maximum of one round for each experience level of the caster, or until expended.
While the spell is in effect, all creatures that could be affected by it fight with a -7 penalty
to their attack rolls when engaging the spellcaster.
The reverse of the spell, dispel good, functions against summoned or enchanted
creatures of good alignment or creatures that have been sent to aid the cause of good.
The material components for this spell are the priest's religious object and holy (or
unholy) water.

 Easy March (Invocation) 
Sphere: Travelers
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One creature/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell enables a number of creatures equal to the caster's level to force march for
a number of days equal to the caster's level. Creatures affected by easy march can travel 2 
½ times their normal movement rate without any risk of fatigue; thus, they are not 
required to make a Constitution check at the end of the day.
All creatures affected by this spell suffer a -1 penalty to their attack rolls for the 
duration of the spell; this modifier is not cumulative (that is, a party experiencing its 
second day of easy march suffers only a -1 penalty). The modifier cannot be negated by 
resting. 
Easy march has no effect on modifiers to movement due to terrain, fatigue, weather, 
or other normal factors. (Refer to Chapter 14 of the Player's Handbook for more about 
force marching.)
The material component is a piece of shoe leather. 

 Elemental Forbiddance (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards, Elemental--Air, Earth, Fire, Water
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 5'-cube/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell prevents the entry of all elementals into the area of effect. Further, 
elementals outside the area of effect cannot make physical attacks against those inside. 
Spells and missile attacks can be cast into the area by elementals.
The spell affects a cube whose sides equal the caster's level times 5 feet (a 12th-level 
priest could affect an area equal to a 60' x 60'x 60' cube).
Elemental forbiddance has no effect on elementals that are within the area of effect 
when the spell is cast. If such elementals leave the area of effect, they cannot reenter.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and four glass beads, each of a 
different color (green, blue, red, and yellow). The priest must pace out the perimeter of 
the warded area at the time of casting. 

 Extradimensional Manipulation (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2d12 rounds+4 rounds/level
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One extradimensional space up to
20 feet x 20 feet
Saving Throw: Special
This spell allows the priest to alter the characteristics of certain extradimensional 
spaces such as those created by rope trick and similar spells or those contained in items 
like bags of holding or portable holes. 
Extradimensional manipulation can increase or reduce the size of a single 
extradimensional space. The amount of increase or decrease depends on the level of the 
caster:
 Level       | Multiplier 
 Up to 10    |  x2 
 11 to 16    |  x3 
 17 or above |  x4 

This means that a 10th-level priest can double the capacity of a bag of holding or 
decrease it to half its normal size. A 15th-level priest can triple the capacity or reduce it 
to one-third capacity.
If the size and capacity of an extradimensional space is decreased, any contents of the 
space that exceed the current capacity are expelled (determined randomly). These 
contents are expelled from the space in the same way they originally entered it, if that 
path is still open. If the path is closed, as it would be if a bag of holding were tied shut or 
a portable hole were folded up, the "extra" contents are expelled into the Astral plane. 
Any items in an enlarged space when the spell duration expires suffer the same fate.
Placing an extradimensional space inside another such space, such as placing a bag of 
holding inside a portable hole (see the Dungeon Master's Guide), is a dangerous 
undertaking. Extradimensional manipulation may be cast for the purpose of removing 
this danger. When used in this manner, the size of the space cannot be affected. However, 
while this version is in effect, the affected extradimensional space can be placed within 
another such space (or another extradimensional space may be placed within the affected 
space) with no adverse consequences. If one space is within the other when the spell 
expires, the usual consequences ensue immediately.
If the space to be affected is being maintained by a spellcaster, as in the case of a rope 
trick, that spellcaster receives a saving throw to resist the manipulation. If the space is 
created by a magical item, however, no saving throw is allowed.
The material component is a strip of gold tissue worth at least 5 gp that is twisted into 
a Moebius strip. The strip is consumed in the casting. 

 Extradimensional Pocket (Alteration) 
Sphere: Numbers
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1d12 rounds+2 turns/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the priest to create a single extradimensional space or pocket like 
the one inside a bag of holding. The spell must be cast on a container such as a sack, bag, 
or backpack. Once under the influence of the spell, the container opens into a 
nondimensional space and is much larger inside than its outside dimensions. The 
container always weighs a fixed amount, regardless of what is put inside. This weight and 
the capacity of the extradimensional space depend on the level of the caster:

  
 Level | Apparent Weight | Weight Cap. | Volume Cap.
9-13   | 15 lbs          | 250 lbs     | 30 cu.ft. 
 14-16 |  25 lbs         | 500 lbs     | 70 cu.ft. 
 17-19 |  35 lbs         | 750 lbs     | 100 cu.ft. 
 20+   |  60 lbs         | 1,000 lbs   | 150 cu.ft. 

If the container is overloaded or if it is pierced by a sharp object, the bag immediately 
ruptures and the contents are lost into the Astral plane. Any items within the bag when 
the spell duration ends are also lost in the Astral plane.
The material components, in addition to the container, are 200 gp worth of powdered 
diamond and a sheet of platinum worth 500 gp. The platinum sheet must be inscribed 
with a drawing of a Klein bottle (a paradoxical figure with only one surface--the three
 dimensional analogue of the Moebius strip). The diamond dust is consumed during the 
casting--the platinum sheet is not. 

 Flame Strike
(Evocation)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 5 ft. radius Saving Throw: _
x 30 ft. column
When the priest evokes a flame strike spell, a vertical column of fire roars downward
in the location called for by the caster. Any creatures within the area of effect must roll a
saving throw vs. spell. Failure means the creature sustains 6d8 points of damage;
otherwise, the damage is halved.
The material component of this spell is a pinch of sulphur.

 Grounding (Abjuration) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 10-yard square/priest
Saving Throw: None
Grounding offers protection against normal and magical electrical attacks within the 
area of effect. The protected area and creatures within it suffer no damage from normal 
electrical attacks (such as those caused by lightning bolts in a thunderstorm and 
nonmagical creatures such as electric eels). Magical electrical attacks (including lightning 
bolt breath weapons) cause only 50% of their normal damage. Additionally, creatures 
within the area of effect receive a +2 bonus to saving throws made against electrical 
attacks, regardless of whether the attacks originate inside or outside the warded area.
The material components are the priest's holy symbol and a coil of silver wire. 

 Illusory Artillery (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: War
Range: 300 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 30 yard x 30 yard square
Saving Throw: None
This spell creates a vivid illusion of incoming artillery fire (ballista bolts, catapult 
stones, etc.) at a target indicated by the caster. The illusion is complete, comprising both 
audial and visual elements. It is impossible for victims to determine where the missiles 
were fired from; creatures under attack notice the missiles only when they are about to 
strike.
The missiles never actually strike--they vanish inches above the victims' heads and do 
no damage. The illusion is so terrifying, however, that victims must immediately make a 
morale check. The first time a group or unit is the target of this spell, this morale check is 
made with no modifier. The second and subsequent times that the same unit is attacked 
with this spell, the unit receives a +1 bonus to its morale score (for checks against this 
effect only) unless the unit has been the target of real artillery fire in the interim. In this 
case, the bonus does not apply.
The material component is a small, empty cylinder made of brass. 

 Impeding Permission (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Law
Range: 150 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 3
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg. 
This spell may be cast only on creatures with Intelligence of 2 or greater and the 
ability to communicate with the caster. The spell interferes with the victim's ability to 
make decisions. It prevents the victim from performing any action without first gaining 
the permission of the caster or a character designated by the caster. The victim will heed 
only the person designated by the caster. 
Before the victim undertakes any action, he must gain permission. He will not follow 
through with an action until he gains permission. If permission is denied, the victim 
cannot act until he thinks of an alternate action and gains permission for that action.
Every round, the victim must decide his action for that round; at the victim's 
initiative, he must ask permission to perform his action. If permission is denied, the 
victim can take no other action that round.
The only actions exempt from the need for permission are involuntary actions such as 
breathing. 
Asking and gaining permission takes only a short amount of time in most cases. A 
simple request, such as asking for permission to swing a sword in the middle of combat, 
can be accomplished quickly. Complicated requests, such as getting permission to act on 
a complicated plan, will naturally take more time. The DM may consider adding a 
modifier to the victim's initiative roll in such cases. 

 Insect Plague
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Combat
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rds./level Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 180 ft. x 60 ft. cloud Saving Throw: None
When this spell is cast by the priest, a horde of creeping, hopping, and flying insects
gather and swarm in a thick cloud. In an environment free of normal insects, the spell
fails. The insects obscure vision, limiting it to 10 feet. Spellcasting within the cloud is
impossible. Creatures in the insect plague, regardless of Armor Class, sustain 1 point of
damage for each round they remain within, due to the bites and stings of the insects.
Invisibility is no protection. All creatures with 2 or fewer Hit Dice will automatically
move at their fastest possible speed in a random direction until they are more than 240
yards away from the insects. Creatures with fewer than 5 Hit Dice must check morale;
failure means they run as described above.
Heavy smoke drives off insects within its bounds. Fire also drives insects away. For
example, a wall of fire in a ring shape keeps a subsequently cast insect plague outside its
confines, but a fireball spell simply clears insects from its blast area for one round. A
single torch is ineffective against this vast horde of insects. Lightning, cold, or ice are
likewise ineffective, while a strong wind that covers the entire plague area disperses the
insects and ends the spell. The plague lasts two rounds for each level of the caster, and
thereafter the insects disperse. The insects swarm in an area that centers around a
summoning point determined by the spellcaster. The point can be up to 120 yards away
from the priest. The insect plague does not move thereafter for as long as it lasts. Note
that the spell can be countered by a dispel magic spell.
The material components of this spell are a few granules of sugar, some kernels of
grain, and a smear of fat.

 Magic Font
(Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 1 hour
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The spell causes a holy water font to serve as a scrying device. The spell does not
function unless the priest is in good standing with his deity. The basin of holy water
becomes similar to a crystal ball. For each vial of capacity of the basin, the priest may
scry for one round, up to a maximum of one hour. Thus, the duration of the magic font
spell is directly related to the size of the holy water receptacle. The DM will know the
chances of a character being able to detect scrying.
The priest's holy symbol and the font and its trappings are not consumed by the spell.

 Meld (Enchantment) 
Sphere: Charm
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 12 hours
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: One priest
Saving Throw: Special
This cooperative spell requires only one priest to cast it, but can be cast only on 
another priest of the same faith. The recipient of the spell must voluntarily surrender 
himself to the spell. The recipient becomes a host for the caster. While the recipient does 
not lose his own persona or ability to act, the host can be dominated by the caster at any 
time. For the most part, this domination is complete.
For the duration of the spell, the caster is essentially detached from his own body. He 
can neither move nor act on his own. His mind is connected to the host's. He sees, hears, 
smells, tastes, and otherwise senses everything the host does. He can telepathically 
communicate with the host. Once the spell is completed, there is no limit to the range 
over which it can function. However, both the caster and host must remain on the same 
plane. Since the spell relies on telepathic communication, thin lead sheeting will 
effectively block the connection.
 When desired, the caster can dominate the host. When this happens, the host's own 
mind is pushed to the background and the caster's personality dominates. The host's 
personality, memories, proficiencies, and spells are temporarily replaced by those of the 
caster. While occupying the host, the caster can cast any spell he himself has memorized, 
provided that the necessary components are on hand. These spells function exactly as if 
the priest had cast them from his own body.
The caster can return control to the host at any time, restoring the character's abilities 
and personality without harm.
The spell is not without limitations and risks. The domination must be voluntary. If 
the host resists the casting of the spell, it automatically fails. Once the spell is in effect, 
the host can attempt to resist the domination. He is then allowed a saving throw. If 
successful, the spell immediately ends.
Whenever the host suffers damage, the caster must make a saving throw vs. death to 
maintain the spell. If the save is failed, a wave of pain is transmitted to the priest, causing 
1d6 points of damage and canceling the spell. If the host should die, the caster must make 
a system shock roll with the risk of suffering instant death.
The material component is a chalice worth no less than 1,000 gp. This chalice must 
be given as a gift to the host (who cannot return it to the donor for any reason). 

 Memory Wrack (Alteration, Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 rounds/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This nasty spell "disconnects" the subject's short-term and long-term memory. While 
the spell is in effect, the subject is incapable of storing information in long-term memory. 
Every moment is virtually an independent event for the subject; he or she can remember 
recent events, thoughts, and sensations for no more than a few seconds (the amount of 
time they remain in short-term memory).
Memories of events that happened before the onset of the spell are not affected at all; 
these are safely stored in long-term memory. This means that the subject can cast any 
spells memorized before the memory wrack took effect, but he is likely to have difficulty 
casting the spell as described below.
The subject of this spell has a limited ability to act. He is restricted to one action at a 
time and must concentrate mightily to keep the situation and any planned actions in short
 term memory. As long as the subject is able to maintain concentration, he may act 
normally within these limits.
If the subject is distracted (he is struck in combat, affected by a spell, startled, 
surprised, or a similar event occurs), he forgets everything that occurred from the onset of 
the spell to the moment of distraction. The subject must re-evaluate the situation as if it 
had just come to pass.
Consider the following example. The subject of the spell is a soldier assigned to 
guard the entrance to a building. The priest arrives and casts memory wrack on the guard. 
The guard has no problem remembering his orders, since he received them before the 
onset of the spell. He also remembers the arrival of the priest. The priest now tries to 
convince the guard that he is authorized to enter the building. The guard refuses him 
entry. The priest now picks up a rock and throws it at the guard, striking him and 
distracting him. The guard forgets everything that happened between the onset of the 
spell and the moment the rock struck. He forgets that the priest has already tried to con 
him and that he threw a rock at him. He must reevaluate the situation as though the priest 
had just arrived. The priest is free to make another attempt at entering the building.
When the spell expires, the subject remembers nothing that happened while the spell 
was in effect, possibly leading to amusing consequences ("By the gods, how did I get 
here?").
The material component is a ruby of at least 200 gp value, which is crushed during 
the casting. 

 Mindshatter (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Thought
Range: 3 yards/level
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell allows the priest to create one specific form of insanity in the subject. Five 
forms of insanity are possible through this spell.
Schizophrenia: This form of insanity is characterized by personality loss. The subject 
has no personality of his own, so he selects a role model and makes every possible 
attempt to behave like that character. The chosen role model will be as different from the 
subject as possible. (Thus, an insane wizard might begin to follow the habits of a 
warrior.) Obviously, a warrior who believes himself to be a wizard will be unable to cast 
spells (he might think that he's casting spells, or he might construct a sophisticated series 
of excuses explaining why he's "not in the mood for magic" at the moment). A character 
who emulates a member of another class does not gain any of the skills of that class and 
makes all attacks and saving throws as appropriate to his true class. Certain consequences 
might arise if the character's emulation causes him to break restrictions of his class. For 
example, a priest emulating a warrior might break his deity's prohibition against edged 
weapons, or a paladin might emulate a Neutral Evil thief. Both will suffer the appropriate 
consequences as if they had been compelled to violate their beliefs while charmed. Such 
characters will certainly have to atone for their actions once they return to normal.
Dementia praecox: The subject is totally uninterested in any undertaking. Nothing 
seems worthwhile, and the individual is lethargic and filled with tremendous feelings of 
boredom and dissatisfaction. No matter how important the situation, it is 50% likely that 
the subject will ignore it as meaningless.
Delusional insanity: The subject is convinced that he is a famous figure: a monarch, 
demi-god, or similar personage. Characters who fail to recognize the subject with the 
honor he deserves incur great hostility or disbelief. The subject acts appropriately to a 
station that he does not hold. He directs orders at real and imaginary creatures and draws 
upon resources that do not exist.
Paranoia: The subject is convinced that "they" (whoever they are) are spying on him 
and plotting against him. Everyone around the subject, even friends and allies, is part of 
the plot. If any other character acts in a way that the subject can interpret as reinforcing 
this delusion, the subject has a 20% chance of reacting with violence.
Hallucinatory insanity: The subject sees, hears, and otherwise senses things that do 
not exist. The more stressful the situation is to the subject, the more likely he will 
hallucinate. Although most hallucinations are external to the subject (that is, he perceives 
creatures, objects, and conditions that do not exist), there is a 10% chance that any 
hallucination will involve the subject's self-perception. For example, the subject might 
suddenly believe and act as if he had sprouted wings, grown to giant size, etc.
When this spell is cast by a priest of 13th level or lower, the DM chooses or randomly 
selects one of these forms of insanity (and should feel free to invent other interesting 
symptoms). If the priest is 14th level or higher, he can personally select the form of 
insanity to afflict the subject.
While under the effect of this spell, the subject can cast spells and use innate powers; 
the use of these abilities will be in accordance with the symptoms of the insanity, 
however. Player characters affected by this spell should be encouraged to role-play the 
appropriate effects to the limit.
The duration of this spell depends on the sum of the subject's Intelligence and 
Wisdom scores. A saving throw is allowed on a periodic basis depending on this total. 
The spell is broken if a successful saving throw is rolled. Refer to the table that follows. 

Int+Wis    | Time Between Checks
8 or less  |  1 month 
9 to 18    |  3 weeks 
19 to 24   |  2 weeks 
25 to 30   |  1 week 
31 to 35   |  3 days 
36 or more |  1 day 

The effects of this spell can be removed by a limited wish, wish (or equally powerful 
magic), or by a heal spell cast for this specific purpose.
The material component is a small bust of a human head, about 3" in height, made 
from fine, delicate china. The priest shatters this bust during the casting. 

 Moonbeam
(Evocation, Alteration)
Sphere: Sun
Range: 60 yds. + 10 yds./level Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: 5 ft. radius + special Saving Throw: None
By means of this spell, the caster is able to cause a beam of soft, pale light to strike
down from overhead and illuminate whatever area he is pointing at. The light is exactly
the same as moonlight, so that colors other than shades of black, gray, or white are vague.
The spellcaster can easily make the moonbeam move to any area that he can see and
point to. This makes the spell an effective way to spotlight something, an opponent, for
example. While the moonbeam spell does not eliminate all shadows, a creature centered
in a moonbeam is most certainly visible. The reflected light from this spell enables dim
visual perception 10 yards beyond the area of effect, but it does not shed a telltale glow
that would negate surprise. The light does not adversely affect infravision. The caster can
dim the beam to near darkness if desired. The beam has, in addition, all the properties of
true moonlight and can induce a lycanthropic change (of a creature in the beam), unless
the DM rules otherwise.
The material components are several seeds of any moonseed plant and a piece of
opalescent feldspar (moonstone).

 Nature's Charm (Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Elemental (earth, water)
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 2 hours/level of caster
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: 15-foot radius/level of caster
Saving Throw: Creatures native to the area of effect are not affected.
Nature's charm causes a particular place to exert a special fascination beyond mere 
beauty to anyone entering the area except the spellcaster. 
This spell must target a site of notable natural splendor that possesses both edible 
plants and fresh water. The spot may not be larger than the spell's area of effect. For 
instance, a 12th-level druid could cast this spell on a forest glade up to 360 feet across, 
with flowers and fruit-bearing trees centered around a waterfall.
Anyone coming upon the enchanted region must save vs. spell; those who fail 
invariably make up excuses to remain there long after they should have left. They say 
they want only to bathe, rest, admire the beauty a bit longer, eat the berries or fruit, paint 
a picture of the area, or defend the spot jealously from others. 
Whatever the reason, those who fall victim to the enchantment forcefully resist all 
attempts to make them leave until the spell's duration ends.
The spell's material component is the druid's holy symbol.

 Pass Plant
(Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
By using this spell, the caster is able to enter a tree and move from inside it to inside
another tree. The second tree must lie in approximately the direction desired by the spell
user and must be within the range shown in the following table.
Type of Tree   |   Range of Area of Effect
Oak            |           600 yards
Ash            |           540 yards
Yew            |           480 yards
Elm            |           420 yards
Linden         |           360 yards
deciduous      |           300 yards
coniferous     |           240 yards
other          |           180 yards

 The tree entered and that receiving the caster must be of the same type, must both be
living, and of girth at least equal to that of the caster. Note that if the caster enters a tree,
an ash, for example, and wishes to pass north as far as possible (540 yards), but the only
appropriate ash in range is to the south, the caster will pass to the ash in the south. The
pass plant spell functions so that the movement takes only one round. The caster can, at
his option, remain within the receiving tree for a maximum of one round per level of
experience. Otherwise, he can step forth immediately. Should no like tree be in range, the
caster simply remains within the first tree, does not pass elsewhere, and must step forth in
the appropriate number of rounds. If the occupied tree is chopped down or burned, the
caster is slain if he does not exit before the process is complete.

 Plane Shift
(Alteration)
Sphere: Astral
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature (special) Saving Throw: Neg.
When the plane shift spell is cast, the priest moves himself or some other creature to
another plane of existence. The recipient of the spell remains in the new plane until sent
forth by some like means. If several persons link hands in a circle, up to eight can be
affected by the plane shift at the same time.
The material component of this spell is a small, forked metal rod. The size and metal
type dictates to which plane of existence, including sub-planes and alternate dimensions,
the spell sends the affected creatures. The DM will determine specifics regarding how
and what planes are reached.
An unwilling victim must be touched (successful attack roll) to be sent. In addition, the
creature is also allowed a saving throw. If the saving throw is successful, the effect of the
spell is negated. Note that pinpoint accuracy is rarely achieved; arriving at a random
distance from an intended destination is common.
The metal rod is not expended when the spell is cast. Forked rods keyed to certain
planes may be difficult to come by, as decided by the DM.

 Quest
(Enchantment/Charm)
Sphere: Charm
Range: 60 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Until fulfilled Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: Neg.
The quest spell enables the priest to require the affected creature to perform a service
and return to the priest with proof that the deed was accomplished. The quest can, for
example, require that the creature locate and return some important or valuable object,
rescue a notable person, release some creature, capture a stronghold, slay a person,
deliver some item, and so forth. If the quest is not properly followed, due to disregard,
delay, or perversion, the creature affected by the spell loses 1 from its saving throw rolls
for each day of such action. This penalty is not removed until the quest is properly
pursued or the priest cancels it. There are certain circumstances that will temporarily
suspend a quest, and others that will discharge or cancel it. The DM will give you
appropriate information as the need to know arises.
If cast upon an unwilling subject, the victim is allowed a saving throw. However, if the
person quested agrees to a task--even if the agreement is gained by force or trickery--no
saving throw is allowed. If a quest is just and deserved, a creature of the priest's religion
cannot avoid it, and any creature of the priest's alignment saves with a -4 penalty to the
saving throw. A quest cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed by a priest of the same
religion or of higher level than the caster. Some artifacts and relics might negate the spell,
as can direct intervention by a deity. Likewise, an unjust or undeserved quest grants
bonuses to saving throws, or might even automatically fail.
The material component of this spell is the priest's holy symbol.

 Rainbow
(Evocation, Alteration)
Sphere: Weather, Sun
Range: 120 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 7
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
To cast this spell, the priest must be in sight of a rainbow, or have a special component
(see below). The rainbow spell has two applications, and the priest can choose the desired
one at the time of casting. These applications are as follows:
Bow: The spell creates a shimmering, multi-layered short composite bow of rainbow
hues. It is light and easy to pull, so that any character can use it without penalty for nonproficiency.
 It is magical: Each of its shimmering missiles is the equivalent of a +2
weapon, including attack and damage bonuses. Magic resistance can negate the effect of
any missile fired from the bow. The bow fires seven missiles before disappearing. It can
be fired up to four times per round. Each time a missile is fired, one hue leaves the bow,
corresponding to the color of arrow that is released. Each color of arrow has the ability to
cause double damage to certain creatures, as follows:
Red --fire dwellers/users and fire elementals
Orange --creatures or constructs of clay, sand, earth, stone or similar materials, and
 earth elementals
Yellow --vegetable opponents (including fungus creatures, shambling mounds, treants,
 etc.)
Green --aquatic creatures, electricity-using creatures, and air elementals
Indigo --acid-using or poison-using creatures
Violet --metallic or regenerating creatures

When the bow is drawn, an arrow of the appropriate color magically appears, nocked
and ready. If no color is requested, or a color that has already been used is asked for, then
the next arrow (in the order of the spectrum) appears.
 Bridge: The caster causes the rainbow to form a seven-hued bridge up to 3 feet wide
per level of the caster. It must be at least 20 feet long and can be as long as 120 yards,
according to the caster's desire. It lasts as long as the spell's duration or until ordered out
of existence by the caster.
The components for this spell are the priest's holy symbol and a vial of holy water. If
no rainbow is in the vicinity, the caster can substitute a diamond of not less than 1,000 gp
value, specially prepared with bless and prayer spells while in sight of a rainbow. The
holy water and diamond disappear when the spell is cast.

 Raise Dead
(Necromancy)
Reversible
Sphere: Necromantic
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent Casting Time: 1 rd.
Area of Effect: 1 person Saving Throw: Special
When the priest casts a raise dead spell, he can restore life to a dwarf, gnome, half-elf,
halfling, or human (other creatures may be allowed, at the DM's option). The length of
time that the person has been dead is of importance, as the priest can raise persons dead
only up to a limit of one day for each experience level of the priest (i.e., a 9th-level priest
can raise a person who has been dead for up to nine days).
Note that the body of the person must be whole, or otherwise missing parts are still
missing when the person is brought back to life. Likewise, other ills, such as poison and
disease, are not negated. The raised person must roll a successful resurrection survival
check to survive the ordeal (see Table 3: Constitution) and loses 1 point of Constitution.
Further, the raised person is weak and helpless, needing a minimum of one full day of
rest in bed for each day or fraction he was dead. The person has 1 hit point when raised
and must regain the rest by natural healing or curative magic.
A character's starting Constitution is an absolute limit to the number of times he can be
revived by this means.
The somatic component of the spell is a pointed finger.
The reverse of the spell, slay living, grants the victim a saving throw vs. death magic.
If the saving throw is successful, the victim sustains damage equal to that of a cause
serious wounds spell--i.e., 2d8+1 points. Failure means the victim dies instantly.

 Repeat Action (Enchantment/Charm) 
Sphere: Time
Range: 30 yards
Components: V, S
Duration: Special
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: One creature
Saving Throw: Neg.
This spell compels its victim to repeat the action of the previous round. The result of 
the repetition is always identical to the original result.
For example, if a character fired an arrow and inflicted 4 points of damage, a repeat 
action spell will cause him to fire a second arrow that will also inflict 4 points of damage. 
As long as the victim of the first arrow is within range, the subject affected by repeat 
action will adjust his aim and fire the second arrow at him. If the victim of the arrow 
moves out of range, the subject will fire his second arrow in the direction of the recipient. 
If the recipient is out of sight, the subject will fire in the direction of the recipient's 
original location.
The subject of a repeat action spell must be capable of performing the indicated 
action a second time. If a character has no arrows in his quiver, he cannot fire an arrow. If 
a wizard were ordered to repeat a spell, he would attempt the spell only if he had the spell 
memorized and had sufficient material components. If a subject discovered a gem during 
a given round, repeat action will only compel him to hunt again; he will not recover 
another gem unless a second gem is actually present. 
An unwilling subject is allowed a saving throw vs. spell to resist the effects of repeat 
action.
The material components are two identical glass spheres, each an inch or less in 
diameter. 

 Shrieking Walls (Enchantment) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 day/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 20'-cube
Saving Throw: None
This spell enchants any single room no larger than the area of effect. When any 
creature larger than a normal rat (larger than one-half cubic foot or weighing more than 
three pounds) enters the room, shrill shrieks begin to emanate from the walls. The shrieks 
persist for 2-5 (1d4+1) rounds. The walls do not undergo any physical change.
The shrieks can be heard only by creatures inside the room. Creatures hearing the 
shrieks experience no ill effects on the first round, allowing them time to leave the room 
or cover their ears. Silence, 15' radius protects against the effects.
Creatures who remain in the room during the second or subsequent rounds of the 
shrieks who have not protected their hearing are penalized as follows:
•Creatures whose levels or Hit Dice are greater than the level of the caster are stunned 
for 2-8 (2d4) rounds.
•Creatures whose levels or Hit Dice are less than or equal to the level of the caster 
become deaf for 1-4 hours, suffering a -1 penalty to surprise; deafened spellcasters have a
20% chance of miscasting any spell with a verbal component.
The material components are a small golden bell and a bee's wing. 

 Strengthen Stone (Alteration)
Sphere: Elemental (earth)
Range: 10 yards
Components: V, S, M
Duration: Permanent
Casting Time: 1 hour
Area of Effect: 1 building or wall
Saving Throw: None
Strengthen stone can reinforce any stone construction (house, tower, wall segment, 
aqueduct, etc.), against physical damage. The DM adds +4 to the structure's saving throw 
against any kind of damage, from siege engines to natural earthquakes. The stone object 
gains a saving throw vs. the earthquake spell. (See the PH, p. 233.) The spell may be cast 
only once on any stone object.
If a character casts this spell on a stone golem or other animated stone being (like 
one created by animate rock), the creature receives a -1 bonus to its Armor Class and 
adds a +1 bonus to its saving throws for the duration of the spell. Strengthen stone has no 
effect on earth elementals or galeb duhr.
The material component, a diamond chip worth at least 500 gp, must be crushed and 
sprinkled on the construction.

 Spike Stones
(Alteration, Enchantment)
Sphere: Elemental (Earth)
Range: 30 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: 3d4 turns +1/level Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: 10 ft. sq./level, Saving Throw: None
1 spike/sq. ft.
The spike stones spell causes rock to shape itself into long, sharp points that tend to
blend into the background. It is effective on both natural rock and worked stone. The
spike stones serve to impede progress through an area and to inflict damage. If an area is
carefully observed, each observer is 25% likely to notice the sharp points of rock.
Otherwise, those entering the spell's area of effect suffer 1d4 points of damage per round.
The success of each attack is determined as if the caster of the spell were actually
engaging in combat. Those entering the area are subject to attack immediately upon
setting foot in the area and for each round spent in the area thereafter. The initial step
enables the individual to become aware of some problem only if the initial attack
succeeds; otherwise movement continues and the spike stones remain unnoticed until
damage occurs. Charging or running victims suffer two attacks per round.
Those falling into pits affected by spike stones suffer six such attacks for every 10 feet
fallen, each attack having a +2 bonus to the attack roll. In addition, the damage inflicted
by each attack increases by +2 for every 10 feet fallen. Finally, the creatures also suffer
normal falling damage.
The material component of this spell is four tiny stalactites.

 Thornwrack (Alteration)
Sphere: Plant
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 thorn/level of caster
Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 person
Saving Throw: Neg.
Thornwrack causes long, painful thorns to grow out of the spell recipient's flesh, 
piercing the skin from the inside. One thorn appears each round, inflicting 1d3 points of 
damage, until all the thorns have appeared. When the number of thorns exceeds the 
subject's experience level or HD, a victim still conscious becomes immobilized by the 
pain, unable to take any action.
One round after the last thorn erupts from the victim's flesh, the first one disappears. 
The thorns continue receding at a rate of one per turn. Immobilized subjects can move 
again once the number of thorns falls below their HD or experience level. For instance, 
say the body of a 4th-level character has seven thorns. After four turns had passed, only 
three thorns would remain, so the victim would no longer be immobile.
Cure spells can restore hit points but do not eliminate the thorns. Dispel magic will 
end the spell but prevents existing thorns from receding. A heal spell cancels the 
thornwrack, eliminates all existing thorns, and cures all damage. Without the benefit of 
magical remedies, the spell ends when the last thorn has receded.

 Thoughtwave (Divination)
Sphere: Divination
Range: 0
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: 1
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: Special
This cooperative spell can be cast by either a single priest or a group of priests. 
Thoughtwave allows the priest to send a short but powerful message to one or more 
specific individuals, informing them of his situation and general location. The spell 
instantly generates a powerful mental impulse indicative of the caster's general mental 
state--anger, fear, pain, despair, etc.
The caster can designate as many as ten persons to receive this message, provided 
they can all be specifically named or grouped in a general category. Thus, the caster 
could designate a group of characters by name or could target "fellow priests," 
"superiors," "adventuring companions," "knights of Lord Harcourt," or "villagers of 
Dopp." If more than ten individuals are in the group, those closest to the source will 
receive the impulse.
There is no range limitation to the spell, although it cannot be projected outside the 
plane occupied by the caster.
Creatures receiving the impulse automatically know who sent it (even if they have 
never met the priest before) and gain a clear indication of the mood and situation of the 
caster. Recipients also intuitively know the general source of the spell, although they are 
unable to pinpoint rooms, dungeon levels, or landmarks. For example, a fighter could 
suddenly be struck by an image of Father Rastibon, who is injured and in great pain 
somewhere along the forest road. A priest might suddenly sense that his patriarch is being 
tortured in the dungeons of Castle Varrack.
The spell can also be cast by more than one priest, allowing them to either contact 
greater numbers of individuals or increase the intensity of the message. If greater 
numbers are desired, ten characters are contacted per priest involved in the casting.
Increasing the intensity of the message makes it more compelling. Doubling the 
intensity (requiring at least three priests) causes the message to act as a suggestion. In this 
case, the effect is limited to a single target. Tripling the intensity (requiring at least five 
priests) gives the spell the force of a quest. This effect is also limited to a single target. In 
both cases, the target is allowed a saving throw to avoid the effect of the suggestion or 
quest. 

 Time Pool (Divination) 
Sphere: Time
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 round/level
Casting Time: 1 round
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None
This spell allows the caster to cause a mirror, a pool of water, or any other reflective 
surface to reveal a specific event from the past. The image provides a perfectly clear 
picture with normal sounds, as if the caster were present at the scene. The image 
continues for the duration of the spell.
Time pool will not reveal images from other planes of existence.
The spell's success is not automatic. The caster must know the general nature of the 
event he wishes to view (i.e., "Show me the murder of King Thamak"). The caster's base 
chance of viewing the desired scene is 50%, modified as follows, to a maximum of 90%:
•Add 5% for each point of the caster's Wisdom above 15.
•Add 20% if the caster has successfully used time pool to observe the same event 
before. 
Only one of the following may apply:
•Add 20% if the event is one in which the caster participated.
•Add 10% if the caster is well informed about the event.
•Add 5% if the caster is slightly informed about the event.
The caster cannot communicate or otherwise interact with the image. Spells cannot be 
cast into the time pool.
The material components are a suitable reflective surface and a pinch of powdered 
quartz. 

 Transmute Rock to Mud
(Alteration)
Reversible
Sphere: Elemental (Earth, Water)
Range: 160 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 20-ft. cube/level Saving Throw: None
This spell turns natural rock of any sort into an equal volume of mud. If it is cast upon
a rock, for example, the rock affected collapses into mud. Magical or enchanted stone is
not affected by the spell. The depth of the mud created cannot exceed 10 feet. Creatures
unable to levitate, fly, or otherwise free themselves from the mud sink at the rate of 1/3 of
their height per round and eventually suffocate, save for lightweight creatures that could
normally pass across such ground. Brush thrown atop the mud can support creatures able
to climb on top of it, with the amount required decided by the DM. Creatures large
enough to walk on the bottom can move through the area at a rate of 10 feet per round.
The mud remains until a successful dispel magic or transmute mud to rock spell
restores its substance--but not necessarily its form. Evaporation turns the mud to normal
dirt at a rate of 1d6 days per 10 cubic feet. The exact time depends on exposure to the
sun, wind, and normal drainage.
The reverse, transmute mud to rock, hardens normal mud or quicksand into soft stone
(sandstone or similar mineral) permanently unless magically changed. Creatures in the
mud are allowed a saving throw to escape before the area is hardened to stone. Dry sand
is unaffected.
The material components for the spell are clay and water (or sand, lime, and water for
the reverse).

 True Seeing
(Divination)
Reversible
Sphere: Divination
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 rd./level Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: 1 creature Saving Throw: None
When the priest employs this spell, he confers upon the recipient the ability to see all
things as they actually are. The spell penetrates normal and magical darkness. Secret
doors become plain. The exact location of displaced things is obvious. Invisible things
become quite visible. Illusions and apparitions are seen through. Polymorphed, changed,
or enchanted things are apparent. Even the aura projected by creatures becomes visible,
so that alignment can be discerned. Further, the recipient can focus his vision to see into
the Ethereal plane or the bordering areas of adjacent planes. The range of vision
conferred is 120 feet. True seeing, however, does not penetrate solid objects; it in no way
confers X-ray vision or its equivalent. In addition, the spell effects cannot be further
enhanced with known magic.
The spell requires an ointment for the eyes that is made from very rare mushroom
powder, saffron, and fat and costs no less than 300 gp per use.
The reverse, false seeing, causes the person to see things as they are not: rich is poor,
rough is smooth, beautiful is ugly. The ointment for the reverse spell is concocted of oil,
poppy dust, and pink orchid essence.
For both spells, the ointment must be aged for 1d6 months.

 Wall of Fire
(Conjuration/Summoning)
Sphere: Elemental (Fire)
Range: 80 yds. Components: V, S, M
Duration: Special Casting Time: 8
Area of Effect: Special Saving Throw: None
The wall of fire spell brings forth an immobile, blazing curtain of magical fire of
shimmering color--yellow-green or amber (different from the 4th-level wizard version).
The spell creates an opaque sheet of flame up to one 20-foot square per level of the
spellcaster, or a ring with a radius of up to 10 feet + 5 feet for every two levels of
experience of the wizard, and 20 feet high.
The wall of fire must be cast so that it is vertical with respect to the caster. One side of
the wall, selected by the caster, sends forth waves of heat, inflicting 2d4 points of damage
upon creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of damage upon those within 20 feet. In
addition, the wall inflicts 4d4 points of damage, plus 1 point of damage per level of the
spellcaster, to any creature passing through it. Creatures especially subject to fire may
take additional damage, and undead always take twice normal damage. Note that
attempting to directly catch moving creatures with a newly created wall of fire is
difficult. A successful saving throw enables the creature to avoid the wall, while its rate
and direction of movement determine which side of the created wall it is on. The wall of
fire lasts as long as the priest concentrates on maintaining it, or one round per level of
experience of the priest in the event he does not wish to concentrate upon it.
The material component of the spell is phosphorus.

 Unceasing Vigilance of the Holy Sentinel (Alteration) 
Sphere: Guardian
Range: 0
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 hour/level
Casting Time: 1 turn
Area of Effect: 5-foot-radius sphere
Saving Throw: None
This spell enhances a priest's ability to guard a person, place, or object. The spell's 
effect must be centered on a specific area, for it creates an invisible spherical boundary 
up to 10 feet in diameter. The effect is not mobile; it cannot move with a living creature.
While within the area of effect of this spell, the priest (and only the priest) gains 
several special abilities:
•His sense of sight is magically enhanced. He can see through normal darkness and 
can see invisible creatures and objects. He cannot see through solid objects, however, and 
the range of his magical sight is limited to 60 feet.
•The priest has no need for food, water, or rest. He does not feel fatigue and 
regenerates 1 hit point per hour spent within the circle. However, he does not actually rest 
and therefore cannot regain spells until he sleeps.
•He is totally immune to the effects of magical and natural fear, as well as sleep and 
charm spells.
If the priest leaves the circle, the spell is broken. When the spell ends, the priest must 
rest for 1 turn per hour (or portion thereof) spent in the circle. If the priest is forced into 
action (by being attacked, for example), he can move at only half his normal movement 
rate, has an Armor Class penalty of -2, an attack penalty of -2, and loses all Dexterity 
combat bonuses.
To cast this spell, the priest must trace a circle of sigils and runes 10 feet in diameter 
using a special ink containing the powder of a crushed sapphire (at least 1,000 gp value) 
and a drop of holy water. This procedure takes 1 turn to complete. 

 Undead Ward (Abjuration, Necromancy) 
Sphere: Wards
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M
Duration: 1 turn/level
Casting Time: 2 turns
Area of Effect: 5-foot cube/level
Saving Throw: None
This spell prevents most types of undead creatures from entering the area of effect (a 
cube whose sides equal the caster's level times 5 feet--a 15th-level caster could affect a 
cube whose sides equal 75 feet).
When an undead creature attempts to enter the protected area, the creature is affected 
by the ward as if it were being turned by a priest two levels lower than the caster. The 
casting priest need not have the ability to turn undead himself. Thus, an undead ward
created by a 10th-level priest would turn creatures as if by an 8th-level priest.
The results of the turning attempt are calculated normally. If a large number of 
undead assault the warded area, not all of them are turned by the spell, since the normal 
limitations apply. Undead who are unaffected by the turning attempt ignore the undead 
ward for its duration. Undead within the area of effect when the spell is cast are not 
affected. However, when such undead leave the area of effect, they are subject to the 
effects of the spell if they attempt to reenter.
The material component is the priest's holy symbol, which must be carried around the 
perimeter of the area to be warded.